AHURA is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by . The character is usually depicted as a
member of the Inhumans species. Ahura was created by Ann Nocenti and
Bret Blevins and first makes an appearance in  Graphic Novel: The
Inhumans (1988).


Fictional character history

Ahura is the son of Black Bolt and Medusa of the Inhumans. He was
conceived without permission of the Genetics Council. Having met with
unbearable resistance by the Council and her own husband, Medusa sneaked
away to Earth with a group of friends and allies. Medusa would give
birth in an out-of-the-way house, the area guarded and cleared of
pollutants by the powers of the group.

Ahura's birth cry demonstrated his father's devastating power, but this
evolved into a psionic "evil eye" power that can cause death. He was
taken by the Council and sent to Earth. His spacecraft crashed and he
was taken in by a childless couple and named "Pope". He grew unnaturally
quickly and it was in this period that his "evil eye" power replaced his
vocal powers. He was put in danger after the local townspeople
mistakenly believed that he had maliciously killed a goat with his
powers. Gorgon, Karnak, Daredevil, Brandy Ash and Number Nine came to
rescue him, though their goodwill mission was interrupted by the demonic
Blackheart. The entire group was taken to Hell. Although Brandy is
murdered by Mephisto in the escape, Ahura is able to see Brandy's spirit
form.

Back on the moon, he was taken by the Genetics Council for the leader's
own purposes. With the help of his family, he was able to overcome the
corrupt Chief Justice who had been stealing his power.

His existence seems overlooked in the Son of M series. Crystal demands
the Inhumans go to Earth and retrieve her daughter, Luna. Medusa and
Black Bolt refuse to intervene, to which Crystal bitterly retorts that
they would understand if they had children. Medusa then looks upon
Crystal silently with contempt.

However, Silent War reveals that Ahura has been locked away for years
because he is afflicted with the same madness as his uncle, Maximus. As
his powers grew, so did his insanity. The Genetics Council of Attilan
deemed him too dangerous and he was taken to the Pacifiers to suppress
his powers. They were unable to treat his mental illness. Black Bolt
forbade Medusa to see him but she visits him twice. The first time,
Ahura chastised her for allowing this to happen to him. On Medusa's
second (and most recent) visit, it was revealed that years with the
Pacifiers have taken away Ahura's anger and violence, but left him in an
over-sedated state. Medusa than asked permission of Black Bolt to use
Luna to attempt to heal his mind, but he flatly refused. Maximus
freed Ahura and instructed Luna to remove his mental blocks as she did
on Maximus.

When it came to the Secret Invasion, Ahura was later revealed to have
been captured by the Skrulls who replaced the boy with a Skrull agent.
Eventually the Skrull Ahura was defeated by Maximus. Ahura was held
captive on Skrull ship, watched by a Skrull whose powers were
specifically designed to neutralize telepathy. Ahura was forced to watch
as Black Bolt underwent torture by the Skrulls attempting to steal his
destructive potential. A rogue Inhumans strike force, led by his mother,
rescued them both and the Skrull ship was neutralised. During War of
Kings, Ahura is mentally stable.

At his mother's behest, Ahura is later enrolled as a student at the
Future Foundation.

During Infinity, Black Bolt sends his son away before he destroys
Attilan and releases the terrigen mists across the world to reveal the
Inhuman hybrids throughout humanity. Black Bolt later travels to the
fortress of Kang the Conquerer, where he sent Ahura. There, Ahura has
been under the care of Kang. Ahura is mad at his father for sending him
away to one of their enemies and destroying Attilan, claiming that Kang
has been a better father than Black Bolt ever was. Black Bolt quickly
releases a small capsule of terrigen mist, activating Ahura's
terrigenesis. While Ahura is going through his transformation, Black
Bolt asks Kang to take Ahura out of the timeline to save him from the
coming timedeath of the universe. Kang says he will only do so if Ahura
remains in his care forever. Even if they are to survive the coming
death of the universe, Ahura will remain Kang's. Black Bolt agrees, and
Kang takes Ahura away.


Alternative versions

In the Earth X/Universe X/Paradise X series, the grown up Ahura
becomes the Black Knight, heir to Captain Britain, ruler of Britain.

