The AIR-WALKER (GABRIEL LAN) (also known as GABRIEL THE AIR-WALKER) is a
fictional character appearing in American comic books published by
. The character was created by Stan Lee and John Buscema
and first appears (in android form) in Fantastic Four #120 (March 1972).


Publication history

Created by Stan Lee and John Buscema, Air-Walker first appeared in
Fantastic Four #120 (March 1972). The character later appeared in
Fantastic Four #211 (October 1979), Captain America #249 (September
1980), Dazzler #10 (December 1981) and Silver Surfer vol. 3, #41
(September 1990).


Fictional character biography

GABRIEL LAN is a member of the Xandarian Nova Corps and the captain of
the diplomatic and exploratory spaceship "Way-Opener". Returning from a
mission in space, the Way-Opener was confronted by the vessel of the
cosmic entity Galactus, who abducts Lan and offers to transform him into
a herald, in a similar fashion to the Silver Surfer.

A willing Lan accepts and becomes the Air-Walker. Pyreus Kril, the
Way-Opener's first officer and Lan's friend, becomes obsessed with
finding Galactus after the abduction. Lan becomes devoted to Galactus,
and the closest thing Galactus has had to a true friend. On one journey
to seek a planet for sustenance for Galactus, he battles the alien race
the Ovoids, who kill Lan, but not before Galactus retrieves and
transfers the last spark of Lan's soul to an android body.

Dissatisfied with the android, Galactus sends it to Earth to re-enlist
the Silver Surfer as his Herald. The Air-Walker encounters the Fantastic
Four, and is then defeated by the Surfer, who guesses at the android's
true nature. Mister Fantastic reprograms Galactus' ship to take him to
the Negative Zone, where he will apparently have an abundance of worlds
to consume. The remnants of the Air-Walker are found by the villain
Machinesmith.

The android eventually repairs itself and reactivates. Believing itself
to be the original Gabriel Lan, the Air-Walker attempts to find the
Surfer, but encounters the Thunder God, Thor. The Air-Walker's ability
to wield Thor's hammer Mjolnir reveals its non-human nature, and Thor
destroys the android. Another of Galactus' former Heralds, Firelord,
learns of the battle and confronts Thor. Firelord reveals that he was
once Pyreus Kril, and eventually located Galactus' vessel and confronted
the entity. Galactus agreed to reveal Lan's fate on the condition that
Pyreus serve him as his latest Herald. Firelord then returns to space
with the remains of the android.

Firelord and the Surfer eventually revive the android to aid in a battle
against Galactus' most ruthless Herald, Morg, who completely destroys
the Air-Walker. A version of the Air-Walker and Firelord aid young
superhero team the New Warriors against a threat from the planet
Xandar.

Lan's consciousness is then absorbed into the computer of Galactus'
Worldship, and in data form directs Galactus to uninhabited worlds.
Although the Worldship is later destroyed in a battle with the entity
Tyrant, the Air-Walker is restored to physical form and battles the
Annihilation Wave alongside his fellow Heralds, but is destroyed once
again.


Powers and abilities

Gabriel Lan was a normal man until transformed by Galactus. Endowed with
the Power Cosmic, Lan as the Air-Walker possessed superhuman strength,
endurance, reflexes and reactions, mastery of the electromagnetic
spectrum and total immunity to the rigors of space. Like all Heralds,
the Air-Walker was capable of travelling faster than the speed of light.
Gabriel Lan graduated from the Xandarian Nova Corps Academy, and in
addition to a thorough knowledge of combat, has knowledge of advanced
alien technology and space navigation.

The android version of Lan appears to possess all the same abilities, in
addition to a unique self-repair system and a homing beacon he could use
to find Galactus' ship.


In other media

Television

-   Air-Walker appears in The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes
    episode "Avengers Assemble." He appears as one of Galactus's
    four heralds. This version is an air construct. He oversaw the
    construction of a device in the mountains that would help Galactus
    consume the Earth. In his battle against the Avengers, Air-Walker
    takes on a group of superheroes consisting of Thor, Vision, Black
    Widow, Luke Cage, and Falcon. Thor and Vision battle the herald
    while the others prepare explosives to destroy the machine.
    Air-Walker is eventually severely weakened by Thor's lightning
    before being destroyed by Vision's laser.
-   A fictional Air-Walker film was depicted on the TV series
    Entourage. The main character of Vincent Chase was signed on to
    play him and the film was written by Stan Lee with Randall
    Wallace directing. He however did not like Vince's behavior and
    dropped out with Pete Berg replacing him as director.


Footnotes

