AKASHA (AKASHA MARTINEZ), also sometimes called THE LIVING PHARAOH, is a
fictional character appearing in American comic books published by
. The character is usually depicted as a former enemy of
Spider-Man who has been associated with Ahmet Abdol. She is currently a
potential Initiative recruit courtesy of Tony Stark. Akasha has only
appeared in two comic book issues, but she has yet to appear in more.


Fictional character biography

Akasha Martinez lives in Utah, where she is the daughter of two divorced
parents living in separate cities. Trying to escape a rough childhood,
Akasha grew the hobby of riding dirt bikes in the rough terrain of the
state with her friends. Growing up to do this usually all the time, she
was mostly seen as an outsider by her parents. One day, while racing in
the canyons, Akasha crashed into a large pit where she witness what she
believed to be a UFO. Stumbling into the object, she lost control of her
senses and lost consciousness.

Cosmic contact

After the discovery of Akasha's body, her friends rushed her to a
hospital. Meanwhile, in her state of mind, she had frequent contacts
with Ahmet Abdol (Living Pharaoh), who shared with her all of his
memories, history, and life. After this short phase, Akasha gave up her
dangerous habits and instead took to other hobbies she would have
otherwise not have tried. Soon, she went on a trip to New York City with
her father. While visiting the Museum of Natural History, she began to
feel an uncanny relationship with the Egyptian artifacts. As she
secretly sneaked away from her father, she stole all of the artifacts
and was bestowed with enormous cosmic energies, and called herself the
Living Pharaoh. At the time, Spider-Man was also visiting the museum,
and when he saw the stolen artifacts being used villainously, he fought
Akasha. Eventually, Spider-Man managed to take away her possessions,
hoping to strip her of her cosmic powers. Even without the artifacts,
though, Akasha could now call upon the energy and she broke out of her
prison cell Spider-Man had put her in. Angry and vengeful, Akasha
blasted the hero with enough power to kill him, but she knew she could
not bring herself to murder a hero. After this all ended, Akasha
switched her life to crime, all the time influenced and persuaded by
Abdol. Once again, she later clashed with Spider-Man, and this time the
web-slinger destroyed her staff and the girl lost contact with the
former Living Pharaoh. This helped her regain her former personality,
and though she had lost her original cosmic abilities, she now grew
wings, apologized to the hero, and went off in search of her destiny.

The Initiative

Akasha was considered as a "potential recruit" for the Initiative
program, according to Civil War: Battle Damage Report.


Powers and abilities

-   (FORMERLY) Akasha can reach and tap into enormous amounts of
    cosmic energy. This includes the ability to hurl mystical beams of
    energy that can easily demolish a building. She also has a powerful,
    mystical sixth sense which allows her to sense the presence of any
    life form, helping her to ambush or escape that person. Akasha also
    has Class 10 superhuman strength and the ability to teleport
    large distances. Her staff has unknown magical abilities that give
    Akasha catastrophic mystical powers that have not been
    yet identified.
-   (CURRENTLY) Wings granting flight and the ability to withstand the
    pressure of high altitudes. This also has granted her with a minor
    healing factor. Akasha is also naturally skilled at reading Egyptian
    hieroglyphics and is a very talented dirt bike rider.

