ALBERT is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by . The character is usually depicted as an ally
of Wolverine. The character first appeared in Wolverine vol. 1 #37
suspended in a tank of liquid. Albert is a sapient automaton or android.


Fictional character biography

Albert (a robot double of Wolverine) was created along with his
counterpart, Elsie-Dee, by Donald Pierce. These androids were designed
to kill Wolverine. The Wolverine double was to act as the bait and
Elsie-Dee (who outwardly appears to be a 5-year-old girl) was to trap
Wolverine in a burning building, where she would detonate with
sufficient force to kill him. Initially, Albert had a primitive
artificial brain with limited higher logic functions and no emotions,
and he was not referred to as Albert, but as "Dummy".

Pierce's plan to kill Wolverine failed because one of the Reavers,
Bonebreaker, accidentally gave Elsie-Dee the maximum artificial
intelligence one of Pierce's automatons was capable of. As a result
Elsie-Dee eventually found a way to defuse her detonation sequence and
enhanced the primitive intelligence of her counterpart, giving him
intelligence beyond even hers. It was at this point that Elsie named him
Albert, after Albert Einstein. Having met Wolverine, he and Elsie-Dee
decided that he was a noble person and did not deserve to die and
consequently abandoned their mission.

The two robots risked their artificial lives several times for each
other and for Wolverine. At some point they traveled in time and had
several adventures, even teaming up with an old enemy of Wolverine's,
Bloodscream.

Albert and Elsie-Dee at one point travel hundreds of years back in time.
Albert gains a leadership role with a local Indian tribe.


Powers and abilities

Albert was superhumanly strong, could interface directly with computers,
and had an intellect greater than his designer, Donald Pierce. Albert
had 3 retractable claws on each hand, just as Wolverine (but not
adamantium). Albert not only had technological knowledge centuries
beyond conventional science (which he was capable of making significant
progress in), but also perfect photographic recall and profuse knowledge
of even the most obscure facets of history. Albert reinforced his
construction with bulletproof armor and stole a stealth fighter, which
he and Elsie-Dee may still be in possession of. Although Albert was
initially designed to fight Wolverine he had limited fighting skills.


Other versions

Toybiz

The X-Men action figure line originally introduced the character
"Albert" in their '90s series. The official name was Robot Wolverine
(Albert) and was the 6th edition of a Wolverine action figure since the
series launched. Albert featured human-tissue-covered arms which could
be exchanged with a pair of metallic arms with extended claws. The
character design reflected a punk warrior look from a bleak future
popular in movies like Mad Max.

Exiles

In Exiles #85 the Timebroker gathered multiple teams – each full of
Wolverines – to finish the repairing of the broken realities. The last
team he gathered consisted a version of Albert and Elsie-Dee from
Earth-50211. The first mission of the team was to kill an evil Magneto
(female) who melded with that world's Wolverine, Quicksilver (female),
Scarlet Warlock (male Scarlet Witch), and Mesmero (female), and already
captured (and manipulated) dozens of Wolverines from the previous teams.
When they've arrived they were ambushed immediately and both of them
were captured, as well as two of their teammates.


In other media

-   Albert appears in Wolverine: Adamantium Rage.

