SPIDER-MAN (also described as SPIDER-MEN and SPIDER-TOTEM) is the name
of multiple comic book characters from the  Multiverse. The
original and most well known is Peter Parker created by Stan Lee and
Steve Ditko originating from the Earth 616 universe. Within the
mainstream  Universe there have been other characters that have
taken the mantle such as Ben Reilly and Doctor Octavius.

Outside of the mainstream universe there are different incarnations of
Spider-Man in alternate universes such as the Ultimate universe version
and the  2099 version. Originally these characters were depicted
as separate from each other but later on they have crossed over together
such as Peter Parker and Miles Morales teaming up in Spider-Men and in
"Spider-Verse" where the many versions of Spider-Men are the major
protagonist of the storyline. These characters were later merged in the
same universe in the 2015 comic book series Secret Wars as a part of
the Spider-Man family.


Earth-616


Other universes

Other related characters exist in alternative versions of the 
Universe called the Multiverse. These characters originally appeared in
their own continuity but later on crossed over with the mainstream
Spider-Man family. In 2015 all the alternate comic book universes were
destroyed and only a few characters joined together with Earth-616
characters in its own universe including various Spider-Men.

Earth X

In the series Earth X and its sequels, Peter Parker is no longer a
superhero and during the course of the series becomes a police officer.
Three other related characters appear:

-   The Spiders Man is an enigmatic character who makes illusions using
    webs that come from his sleeves. He has lumpy red skin that
    resembles Spider-Man's costume, and wears a tattered cloak.
-   Two alternative versions of Spider-Girl appear: one is called Venom
    and the other was raised by Ben Reilly.

Elseworlds

In the intercompany crossovers called "Elseworlds", Spider-Man has
worked alongside Superman twice, once to defeat Dr. Octopus and Lex
Luthor and the other to stop Doctor Doom from providing the Parasite
with long-term access to the power of the Hulk and Wonder Woman. He also
worked alongside Batman to defeat Carnage and the Joker, the two later
collaborating to defeat the Kingpin and Ra's al Ghul, with Fisk
eventually aiding the heroes in the end. The Ben Reilly Spider-Man
participated in  vs. , where he faced Superboy and won.

Exiles

In the series Exiles, which involves inter-dimensional travel, several
alternative versions appear:

-   THE SPIDER is an alternative version of Spider-Man who merged with
    the Carnage-symbiote and has become a psychopathic killer. Before
    being displaced in time, he had been on death row in his home
    reality. He originates from Earth-15 and was a member of Weapon
    X.
-   Mary Jane Watson, a.k.a. SPIDER-WOMAN, is part of a resistance
    against the techno-organic virus and heroes infected with it,
    including that world's Spider-Man. Mary Jane is also portrayed as a
    lesbian in issue #34.
-   A Spider-Man who is a member of the Fantastic Five dies in a battle
    against The Spider.
-   A version of Spider-Man 2099 joins the Exiles when his identity is
    made public.
-   A Peter Parker is part of a mutant super hero team, Force-X, led by
    Emma Frost. His codename is "Spider". His outfit is the standard
    Force-X uniform and he wears goggles instead of a mask. Also, his
    webbing is organic.
-   A version of Peter Parker exists, who is a child abused by his
    Uncle Ben. While locked in the cellar he is befriended by a large
    spider-like creature, the Tallus instructs Blink and Nocturne to
    lead this universes incarnation of Wolverine to the run down shack
    the Parkers call home, a fight ensues and the creature and Wolverine
    are both slain, as Blink and Nocturne depart this reality it is
    shown that the creature bit the young Peter.
-   Morph fought a Demon Spider-Man on an alternative world. Later, the
    Demon Spider-Man was viewed briefly by Mojo and Major Domo as it
    attacked a young couple in a parking complex, but Spider-Man killed
    himself.

House of M

In the "House of M", a  crossover, the Scarlet Witch alters
reality to make mutants the ruling class over humans. This world is
ruled by mutants and their leader, Magneto. In the mini-series
Spider-Man: House of M, Peter Parker is believed to be a mutant, and
Spider-Man's identity is widely known. He is rich, famous and married to
Gwen Stacy, and they have a young son named Ritchie. Aunt May and Uncle
Ben are alive and in good health, and J. Jonah Jameson is Peter's
often-abused publicist. Unfortunately, his life unravels when Jameson
reveals to the world that Spider-Man is not a born mutant. After the
world is restored to normal, Peter suffers terribly with the memory of
the life he left behind, expressing a desire to kill Magneto, whom he
mistakenly believes was behind the events of House of M, and the Scarlet
Witch, whose powers were responsible for the altered reality.

The Manga

SPIDER-MAN: THE MANGA is a Japanese manga illustrated by Ryoichi
Ikegami which retold the story of Spider-Man in a Japanese setting. It
was originally published in Japan from January 1970 to September 1971 in
Monthly Shōnen Magazine. The main character is named to maintain the
Japanese adaptation.

 Mangaverse

The  Mangaverse is an comic book universe which was set in the
 Multiverse created by Ben Dunn. The universe's incarnation
of Peter Parker would debut in  Mangaverse: Spider-Man (2002)
the first of a five part mini-series, which was created, written and
drawn by Kaare Andrews. Andrews depicted this version of Spider-Man
as an ninja and the last of the Spider Clan after his Uncle Ben was
killed by Venom. The character is the third depicted
manga version of Spider-Man after Spider-Man: The Manga and
Spider-Man J.

The Mangaverse Spider-Man first appeared in the first series (created,
written and drawn by Kaare Andrews) where his origin was very different
from the regular  Spider-Man. In the Mangaverse Peter Parker is
the last member of the Spider Clan of ninjas and has been taught martial
arts by his sensei, Uncle Ben. After Ben's murder by Venom, an underling
of the Kingpin, Peter starts to train in secret so he will be strong
enough to exact his revenge. In this version of Spider-Man, Aunt May is
Peter's mother's sister instead of Uncle Ben being his father's brother.
The Mangaverse Spider-Man was brought back for his own mini-series
(again written by original creator Kaare Andrews) in which he encounters
a cybernetic version of the Black Cat, as well as the Venom symbiote.
This symbiote does not become Venom and has mystical origins and
connections to an 'evil' clan of Ninja who are affiliated with Spiders,
apparently a counterpart to Spider-Man's own ninja clan. Norman Osborn,
better known as the Green Goblin, has a minor appearance in the series.

In New Mangaverse: The Rings of Fate, references are made to both the
death of Captain America and in the Spider-Man: Legend of the Spider
Clan miniseries which introduced his black costume and the Mangaverse
Black Cat. During the course of this series, Spider-Man develops the
unexpected ability to shoot webbing, which surprises him entirely. He is
also the object of affection for both the Black Cat (though she later
turns out to have been in league with the Mangaverse Nick Fury, her true
loyalty unknown), and Mary Jane Watson, who becomes the Mangaverse
version of Spider-Woman, and is shown to be being trained by Peter in
the ways of the Spider-Clan.

Unlike in the mainline  Universe where Peter Parker, Mary Jane
Watson, and Felicia Hardy are now adults, all three of them are in their
early to mid-teens at this point, and possibly their mid-to-late teens
by the time of New Mangaverse. This version of Spidey has wrapped
gloves, a backpack emblazoned with the spider symbol, and tennis shoes.

The Mangaverse incarnation later appears in the crossover comic book
storyline entitled Spider-Verse. He was one of the starred
characters in the anthology comic book Spider-Verse #1 starring in the
story "Spider Clan: The Many" continuing the  Mangaverse series
that starred him before. The story is written by Skottie Young and Jake
Andrews. Jesse Schedeen of IGN explained that despite that "fans of the
Mangaverse Spider-Man will be pleased to see that Peter Parker return",
he expressed Kaare Andrews not returning as unfortunate and also
expressing disappointment with the new writers. He felt that Young "goes
through a lot of effort in sending Peter on a journey to confront his
heritage, only for it not to matter much in the end." He also compared
it as Avatar: The Last Airbender-lite than being truly
manga-inspired. Meanwhile, comic book writer Nick Lowe complimented
their work calling it "great".

Mangaverse Spider-Man also appears in The Amazing Spider-Man (vol. 3)
#12 teaming up with The Manga's Spider-Man and SP//dr. Jesse Schedeen
praised that scene, describing as one of the highlights of the comics
book issue.

Shane Denson of Transnational Perspectives on Graphic Narratives:
Comics at the Crossroads was negative on the mini-series starring the
comic book character feeling that it didn't offer enough transnational
and transcultural themes unlike the other manga series starring
Spider-Man. He also compared it to Star Wars with Uncle Ben being much
like Yoda, Spider-Man being like Luke Skywalker and Venom being like
Darth Vader with him being revealed as Spider-Man's cousin.

-   The  Mangaverse's Spider-Man suit appears in Spider-Man:
    Shattered Dimensions. It is an alternate costume for Ultimate
    Spider-Man.
-   The mangaverse Spider-Man is an unlockable playable character in
    Spider-Man Unlimited. He is depicted as the first alternate
    dimension recruit to help the main version of Spider-Man.

 Adventures

This version of Spider-Man first appeared in  Adventures
Spider-Man #53-#61 before appearing in the re-titled Spider-Man:
 Adventures comic book series. A modern-day high school student,
this Spider-Man's origin is similar to his mainstream counterpart, but
his supporting cast is significantly different. Although Gwen Stacy
exists in this universe, she and Peter are not dating—instead Peter is
dating a brand-new character named Sophia "Chat" Sanduval, who is a
mutant with the ability to talk to animals. Peter's relationship with
Gwen's father Captain George Stacy also differs from the original
version—here, Captain Stacy discovers Peter's secret identity early on,
yet rather than hide this information from Peter (as his mainstream
counterpart did), he confides in Peter and becomes Spider-Man's
unofficial police contact. While this Spider-Man battles super villains,
he is generally more concerned with combating street-level crime and
focuses heavily on taking down the Torino Family, a powerful New York
City mob.

MC2

An alternative version of Peter Parker also exists in the 
2 (MC2) universe, appearing as a supporting character in Spider-Girl.

The title follows almost the entire original timeline of the character
up until the first attempt at a "relaunch" by the company, 1999, where
it deviates and provides an alternative ending to the Final Chapter
storyline. Peter's wayward daughter May is revealed to be alive and
well, and is returned to both Parkers by Peter's first clone, the
redeemed Kaine. Despite now being a father, Peter continues to fight
crime as Spider-Man, and begins to cope with the new responsibilities
brought by his baby daughter.

Two years later, during his final battle against the Green Goblin,
rather than survive unscathed, Peter loses a leg to his arch-enemy and
Osborn is killed. Peter finally realizes the price he has paid for being
Spider-Man, and ends his career to raise a family with Mary Jane and
May. Over the years, he overcomes his physical handicap and ultimately
joins the NYPD in a scientific capacity. However, after saving him from
an insane Normie Osborn, his daughter May "Mayday" Parker begins a
career as Spider-Girl behind his back, a decision Peter begrudgingly is
forced to accept and deal with, made difficult by his love for May.

Regardless of his handicap, Peter returned to the role of Spider-Man
several times. Once was to aid his daughter and Darkdevil, the son of
Ben Reilly, against Kaine, another to convince the latest Spider-Man
(the son of Jessica Drew), to cease risking his life, and in the 100th
issue of the Spider-Girl title to save May from the Hobgoblin. Peter and
MJ ultimately have a second child, Benjamin "Benjy" Parker Jr, who is
temporarily rendered deaf after possession by the Carnage symbiote and
being blasted with high-frequency sonics. Benjy later develops powers of
his own at an infant age.

Spider-Girl

The Spider-Girl comic book series, originally published under the MC2
imprint, features May "Mayday" Parker, Peter's daughter in an
alternative continuity. This timeline diverged from regular continuity
when Peter and Mary Jane's daughter is returned to them by Kaine. In
Spider-Girl, Peter has been retired from crime fighting since his
final battle with the Green Goblin, which cost him a leg. Peter has
settled down to family life and works for the New York City Police
Department as a forensic scientist. His teen daughter May follows in his
footsteps against his wishes, but Peter eventually helps her train for
her calling. Peter appears in costume several times in Spider-Girl,
either to restrain and protect May, or to assist her. Peter is among the
superheroes kidnapped by Loki in the spin-off Last Hero Standing.

In the recent Spider-Girl storyline "Brand New May", Peter has uncovered
a lab, within it is a stasis tank containing an exact physical duplicate
of Mayday Parker, with notes left behind by Norman Osborn suggesting she
is the real Mayday, and not a clone. When protecting his nephew Normie
from an exploding test tube, Peter is affected by the serum within much
like Osborn was...and begins to develop erratic behavior. He ultimately
overcomes an attempt by Norman Osborn to control his mind and defeats
him with the aid of his daughter, her clone, and the spirit of his Aunt
May.

Spider-Man (Gerry Drew)

In the same MC2 continuity as Spider-Girl, Gerald "Gerry" Drew, the son
of Jessica Drew, inherits spider-powers and poses as Spider-Man. Created
by Tom DeFalco and Ron Frenz, he first appeared in Spider-Girl #32
(May 2001), and is a supporting character of Spider-Girl.

Within the context of the stories, Jessica Drew, the original
Spider-Woman, had retired from super heroics, and gotten married. She
gives birth to a baby boy, Gerry, who was diagnosed with a strange
blood-borne disorder due to radiation exposure in the womb. With doctors
and medicines unable to help her son, Jessica recreates the experiment
that cured her of her radiation poisoning, the experiment that made her
Spider-Woman. The experiment imbues Gerry with spider-like powers, but
did not cure him. Gerry's illness strains his parents' marriage and
leads to their divorce. Feeling responsible for the break-up, Gerry
becomes withdrawn. Jessica tries to alleviate his pain by telling him
stories from her past, his favorites involving Spider-Man.

Determined to make his short time on Earth count, Gerry designs his own
Spider-Man costume and equipment based from his idol's, and convinces
his mother to train him in how to use his powers. Calling himself
Spider-Man, he meets Spider-Girl, and the two initially clash.
During a fight between several villains, a bullet intended for
Spider-Man kills one of the villains when Spider-Girl shoves him out of
its way. Upset that he was responsible for a death, Gerry runs into
Darkdevil, who trains him to be a more effective crime fighter. At the
request of Peter Parker, the original Spider-Man, Gerry decides to
retire from super heroic adventuring while Reed Richards searches for a
cure for his blood disease.

Spider-Monkey

A Spider monkey-themed Spider-Man appearing in  Apes. The
character was later killed off by an Inheritor in the "Spider-Verse"
storyline.

 Nemesis: Rise of the Imperfects

In the  Nemesis: Rise of the Imperfects series, set in
Earth-50701, Spider-Man was abducted by an alien scientist name Doctor
Niles Van Roekel. The Thing, Wolverine, Elektra, Human Torch, and Storm
are also abducted and injected with a drug in an attempt to corrupt
them. Once infected Spider-Man's costume is brown-and-bronze with a blue
spider mark in his chest. Spider-Man and the other heroes are eventually
able to fight off the corrupting infection and defeat Van Roekel. In the
aftermath of the invasion, Paragon and the Imperfects join together to
share the Earth with the heroes.

 Zombies version

[A zombified Spider-Man, a cover art homages to the original version's
first appearance in Amazing Fantasy #15 (Aug. 1962). ] Often within
the  Zombies universe, it features a zombified Spider-Man who
has been turned, along with all other heroes in the  Universe,
into a flesh-eating zombie. He is actually infected by Zombie Captain
America (actually known as "Colonel America") rather namely in the first
issue of  Zombies vs. The Army of Darkness, when the infected
ex-president bites him on the shoulder, leaving a wound. Although
Spider-Man is just as ravenous, cannabalistic and disgusting as the
other zombies when hungry, when he has eaten, Spider-Man is constantly
racked with guilt at what he has done, agonizing over having eaten Mary
Jane and Aunt May, but unable to change his nature. At the
conclusion of the storyline, Spider-Man is one of the few heroes who
become THE GALACTUS, having consumed the original Galactus and
subsequently acquiring his cosmic powers. Later, the  Zombies
attack a Skrull planet, only to encounter the new Fantastic Four of the
core "616" reality — then consisting of Black Panther, Storm, the Thing
and the Human Torch- leaving the Zombies eager to capture the FF and
transport back to their reality, although the FF manage to escape.

In  Zombies 2, he is seen with a new cyborg lower leg as well as
having his mask repaired as he is seen with it covering his face once
again. He has noticed that his hunger is starting to fade, and, as a
result, is the first of the Galactus to turn against his fellow zombies,
plus Luke Cage joining him as the two confront Wolverine, Hulk, Iron
Man, and the other infected. Eventually with the aid of Forge,
Malcom, and the Acolytes, the zombies retaining their hunger are
defeated, and many of them are violently killed by an infected Hulk, in
the process. Spider-Man is one of the zombies that remain after having
killed the Hulk with his cosmic powers, and continue to rebuild New
Wakanda, and bury the dead.

Having mastered his hunger, Spider-Man is teleported to a new world,
where he consumes and infects the Sinister Six except for Sandman who
ran away, however, as his cosmic abilities did not come with him, and
his webshooters have somehow dried up, the zombified superhero is forced
to make do with his own veins and arteries, a process which he finds to
be quite painful, though it is commonly known that these Zombies do not
feel pain at all. Following the death of the Spider-Man of this
universe- killed by Sandman in revenge for the deaths of the Sinister
Six after zombie Spider-Man reverted to type and tore the rest of the
Six apart after they killed his other self's family- the zombie
Spider-Man works on developing a cure for the plague with the aid of the
Kitty Pryde of this universe- on the grounds that her powers mean that
she would be at no risk from him if he loses control- using nanites and
the blood of this world's Wolverine. With the zombie Giant-Man
having followed Spider-Man to this new reality — having already infected
the Inhumans (comics), the Hulk, and the Sentry, Spider-Man resolves to
stop Giant-Man.

Spider-Man managed to get the Earth-Z infected Wolverine, the Hulk, &
the half cybernectic Rhodey- the last now living Iron Man with
cybernetic limbs, having cut off his infected body parts to escape being
turned into a zombie- and dubbed themselves as the New Avengers as they
confront Giant-Man with the infected Quicksilver, Thundra, Sentry, Moon
Knight, Super Skrull, Quasar and others to which they are responsible
for killing Loki, Hawkeye, Captain America, Thor, and other deceased
characters listed and shown. Determined to end the zombie plague
forever, Spider-Man ordered the team to destroy the canister he was
carrying, which released the Sandman, now infused with nanobites, and
wiped out every zombie hero and villain. (Giant-Man was destroyed by
Sandman) And afterwards, the Zombie Spider-Man thanked Sandman and
commented that his Aunt May and Mary Jane were avenged. He died from
being exposed to his own weapon, which happened to be Sandman.

Mutant X

The Mutant X version of Spider-Man diverges from his mainstream
counterpart in Amazing Spider-Man #102, in that he was unable or
unwilling to cure himself of having six arms. For unexplained reasons,
he reverses his name to Man-Spider. A third divergence occurs when he
and his clone continue to coexist after the end of the original Clone
Saga. The two keep this a secret by taking care to never appear in
public at the same time, but "Man-Spider" is forced to admit the
truth after his clone is killed by Madelyne Pryor. He himself is
later killed.

Newspaper strip

The Peter Parker of the daily Spider-Man newspaper strip continues his
career as a struggling photographer constantly facing down the abuse of
his less-than-satisfied boss J. Jonah Jameson, whilst battling crime in
his disguise as Spider-Man. In addition to opposing classic enemies,
much of the strip sees Peter battle new enemies. He has also teamed up
with various heroes through the strip's run, such as Daredevil and
Wolverine. He is married to Mary Jane in this continuity, and has often
been aided by her in his battles with his enemies. This universe was
visited by Morlun during the Spider-Verse event, but due to time
distortions constantly resetting things so that the simplest actions
take weeks to progress, Morlun finds his efforts to consume this version
of Peter fruitless. The Master Weaver of the Inheritors elects to rebel
against his masters for once and seals this universe away in a pocket
dimension where it will remain safe from any further attacks.

Powerless

 published a limited series called Powerless in 2004, which
tells how the  Universe would be without super-powers. In this
series, Peter Parker appears as a young man nicknamed SPIDER-MAN on the
internet. This version had also been bitten by a radioactive spider, but
instead of getting super-powers his hand became atrophic. In this
continuity Peter is in love with Gwen Stacy; Mary Jane is not
featured.

Ruins

Warren Ellis's parody of Kurt Busiek's , Ruins, was a
two-part miniseries set in an alternative universe where the situations
that led to the heroes of the  Universe gaining superpowers
instead led to the more realistic side effects of horrific deformities
and deaths. In this world, when Parker was bitten by a radioactive
spider, instead of gaining powers, he broke out into an infectious rash
that covered his body before his painful death. He had visited the
offices of the Daily Bugle beforehand and infected fellow photographer
Phil Sheldon, who set off to figure out how his world took a wrong turn,
but succumbed to the disease before he could write his book.

Spider-Boy

In the Amalgam Comics continuity, Spider-Man was combined with 's
Superboy to create Spider-Boy. He was featured in Spider-Boy #1 (April
1996) and Spider-Boy Team-Up #1 (June 1997). In this continuity,
Spider-Boy is the clone of researcher Peter Parker, created during an
explosion in the Project Cadmus Labs. Adopted by Cadmus director General
Thunderbolt Ross, he is give the name "Pete Ross". Spider-Boy's power is
the ability to redirect his own personal gravity, giving him the ability
to climb walls, and to increase his strength. He is able to shoot webs
using a special "Web Gun" developed by Cadmus. Spider-Boy is an honorary
member of the Legion of Galactic Guardians 2099 (an amalgamation of 's
Legion of Superheroes and 's Guardians of the Galaxy plus the
 2099 timeline).

Spectacular Spider-Man Adventures

The United Kingdom based Panini Comics publication Spectacular
Spider-Man Adventures was loosely based on the continuity of the 1990s
animated series. In the series Peter Parker deals with the
day-to-day headaches of balancing a social life with his super-heroics.
He has a close circle of friends such as Liz Allen, Harry Osborn, and
Flash Thompson, and he is involved in a relationship with Mary Jane.
However, in this continuity, Mary Jane does not possess an existing
knowledge of his dual identity, and thus Peter finds juggling his life
with her and his crime-fighting career difficult. Despite this, Mary
Jane loyally supports Peter, believing it is his dangerous job as a
photographer that keeps him away from dates and other activities. A look
into the future reveals Peter and MJ ultimately get married in this
continuity, and have a daughter, May, who is active as Spider-Girl. At
some point in this future, Peter loses his leg, which forces him to
retire as Spider-Man.

Spider-Ham

Spider-Man 1602

Peter Parquagh is a counterpart to Peter in the miniseries 
1602, albeit without powers. In the series he acts as an apprentice to
the royal spymaster Sir Nicholas Fury. A running gag involves Peter
repeatedly almost getting bitten by unusual spiders, something that
finally occurs at the very end. In the sequel, 1602: New World, he
takes the identity of the Spider. Later, Peter's dual identity is
revealed, and with the death of his beloved Virginia Dare at the hands
of Norman Osborne, he returns to Europe and falls in love with Marion
Jane Watson and joins her family of theater performers. During a battle
with Baron Octavius, Norman Osborn, and Curtis Connors in Venice, a
bystander picks up some of Peter's webbing which eventually served as
the basis for the Super Soldier Serum and created Captain America in
World War II in this universe. While in the Globe theatre, he is
attacked and killed by the super villain Morlun. Spider-Man 1602
appears in Spider-Man: Shattered Dimensions as an alternative costume
for Spider-Man Noir, and in Edge of Time as a costume for Miguel
O'Hara.

Spider-Man 2099

[Miguel O'Hara as a futuristic version of Spider-Man. ] A geneticist
named Miguel O'Hara gained his spider-like powers from a gene-splicing
incident, when the company he was about to quit injected him with a
dangerous drug called Rapture. He tried to rid himself of the drug by
using the Gene Slicer he helped to invent, but unbeknownst to him a
jealous co-worker had set it to repeat the previous experiment of a
spider. The last time they had tried this experiment it killed the test
subject (the main reason Miguel O'Hara quit), but this time it worked.
Instead of becoming a company owned version of Spider-Man he became the
opposite, a Spider-Man to fight Alchemax and the other large
corporations ruling the world in 2099. He now fights crime as the
Spider-Man of 2099.

He is a playable character in the video games Spider-Man Shattered
Dimensions and Spider-Man: Edge of Time, with Edge of Time seeing
him pitted against a psychotic version of Peter Parker in 2099, this
Peter having become the CEO of Alchemax and attempting to rewrite the
universe to fit his vision. CEO Peter uses an elaborate spider-based
robot in his fight against Miguel, but Miguel is able to defeat him by
using the tentacles of Atrocity- a twisted hybrid of Anti-Venom, Doctor
Octopus, and Alchemax employee Walker Sloan- to weaken CEO Peter's
powers.

Spider-Man 2211

Spider-Man (MAX BORNE), also known as SPIDER-MAN 2211, is a superhero
who appears in comics published by . Created by Peter David
and Rick Leonardi, he first appeared in Spider-Man 2099 Meets
Spider-Man (November 1995).

Within the context of the stories, Dr. Max Borne is from the year
2211, the Spider-Man of that year. In his first appearance he aids two
other Spider-Men, Peter Parker and Miguel O'Hara, in defeating the
Hobgoblin of 2211, his main enemy. This Hobgoblin is Robin Borne,
his daughter, driven insane when she was infected by a nanovirus.
Spider-Man 2211 is later shot and killed by the Chameleon of the year
2211, posing as Uncle Ben.

Spider-Man (Bruce Banner)

In Bullet Points, Peter Parker is Hulk and Bruce Banner is Spider-Man.
He later appeared in "Spider-Verse" where Daemos snaps his spine.
Bullet Points Spider-Man appears in the Spider-Man Unlimited video
game as an unlockable playable character.

Spider-Man: Chapter One

The miniseries Spider-Man: Chapter One, was John Byrne's attempt to
reimagine Spider-Man's early years, (similar to the revamp given to
Superman), giving him a new but similar origin. The series is no longer
considered canon within the Earth-616 universe but is set in its own
universe.

''Spider-Man Fairy Tales

-   ANANSI. A playful trickster God based off the West African
    mythological figure of the same name.
-   Izumi, a Japanese boy who is bitten by a Tsuchigumo version of Venom
    and transforms into Spider-Man.
-   The Prince of Arachne, a knight version of Peter Parker in an
    altered retelling of Cinderella. He is killed by Solus in
    Spider-Verse.

Spider-Man J

Just one of many manga related Spider-Man characters. The character
later crossed over in "Spiderverse" with the  Mangaverse version
and The Manga version.

Spider-Man Loves Mary Jane

Spider-Man (Pavitr Prabhakar)

Pavitr Prabhakar debuted in Spider-Man: India, a comic book that
originally published in India by Gotham Entertainment Group in 2004,
retelling the story of Spider-Man in an Indian setting.

Pavitr Prabhakar, a simple Indian boy from a remote village, moves to
Mumbai with his Aunt Maya and Uncle Bhim to study after getting half a
scholarship. His parents died some years ago. Other students at his new
school tease him and beat him for his studious nature and simple
background. He knows his Uncle Bhim is struggling to support him and his
aunt Maya, and pay his school fees. Only Meera Jain, a popular girl from
his school, befriends him. Meanwhile, a local crime lord named Nalin
Oberoi uses an amulet to perform an ancient ritual in which he is
possessed by a demon committed to opening a gate for other demons to
invade Earth. While being chased by bullies, Pavitr Prabhakar encounters
an ancient yogi who grants him the powers of a spider, in order to fight
the evil that threatens the world. While discovering his powers, Pavitr
Prabhakar refuses to help a woman being attacked by several men. He
leaves the place, but comes back when he hears his uncle cry out, and
discovers that he has been slain. He learns that Bhim was stabbed when
he tried to help the woman. Pavitr Prabhakar understands that with great
power comes great responsibility, and swears to use his powers for the
good of others.

Nalin Oberoi briefly becomes human again and transforms a mild-mannered
doctor into a demon with four magical tentacles (the Indian version of
Doctor Octopus), and sends him to kill Spider-Man, as instructed by the
demon voices. Doc Ock fails, and Spider-Man makes his public debut as a
hero. He is, however, labeled a threat by the newspapers.

Oberoi kidnaps Pavitr Prabhakar's aunt, taking her to a refinery outside
Mumbai. There he betrays Doctor Octopus, blasting him into the ocean
with a ray. Spider-Man arrives and fights Oberoi, who has also kidnapped
Meera. He drops both Maya and Meera from the top of the refinery.
Spider-Man dives for his aunt, but fails to rescue Meera, who is saved
by Doctor Octopus. Pavitr reveals his identity to Meera and asks her to
take his aunt to safety.

Oberoi gets rid of Doctor Octopus for good and touches Spider-Man with
the amulet. A Venom-like creature emerges from the amulet tries to lure
Spider-Man to the dark side. Pavitr remembers his uncle's saying about
responsibility and rejects the evil. By doing so, the link between the
demons and Oberoi is shattered, and he becomes human again. Spider-Man
throws the amulet into the ocean, and Oberoi is sent to a mental
institution.

Peace is restored to Mumbai eventually. Pavitr Prabhakar begins a
romance with Meera, and is shown celebrating the festival Diwali with
his aunt. The story ends with a quote from the Bhagavad Gita, showing
the Venom-Demon still alive.

During the Spider-Verse storyline which featured Spider-Men from
various alternate realities, Pavitr Prabhakar was seen fighting a
mysterious new villain named Karn, whom he mistook for a demon. The
Superior Spider-Man (Doctor Octopus' mind in Peter Parker's body)
managed to save him and recruited him into his army of Spiders. In
the second volume of Spider-Verse set during the Secret Wars event,
Pavitr Prabhakar found himself in the domain of the Battleworld called
Arachnia, where he teamed up with Spider-Gwen, Spider-Ham, Spider-Man
Noir, Spider-UK and Anya Corazon, though none of them remembered their
previous encounter during the original Spider-Verse.

Following the conclusion of Secret Wars the team of six Spiders that
formed during the event will rename itself and feature in a new ongoing
series called Web Warriors, a name that was coined by Peter Parker
from the Ultimate Spider-Man TV series during the original
Spider-Verse.

Pavitr Prabhakar is playable among other Spiders in the Spider-Man
Unlimited video game.

Spider-Man: Noir

This version of Spider-Man appeared in a 4 issue miniseries (Feb-May
2009). He exists in the Great Depression Era of New York in the 1930s.
Aunt May is a speaker of equality and spends time standing on a soap box
shouting her beliefs. Uncle Ben was killed by a crime syndicate run by
Norman Osborn, aka The Goblin. Shortly afterward, Peter is bitten by a
strange spider and endowed with mystical spider-powers. Though he has no
wall-crawling ability, he has increased agility, strength, a form of
spider-sense, and can spray nets of webbing from his hand. He then dons
a black mask, gloves, and a trenchcoat and sets out to stop Norman and
his gang. This version of Spider-Man appears in the game, Spider-Man:
Shattered Dimensions.

Spider-Man: Reign

Spider-Man: Reign depicts an older Spider-Man in the future who,
having given up on crime-fighting, is driven back into action by the
return of some of his old enemies, exposing a conspiracy by Venom to
take control of the city with a mass of symbiotes. The character is
later killed by Daemos with his head smashed by Mary Jane Watson's
tombstone in "Spider-Verse".

Spider-Man Unlimited

This version of Spider-Man, after being blamed by J. Jonah Jameson for
his son's disappearance exploring another planet, Counter-Earth, designs
a new costume with sonic weaponry and stealth capabilities using
nanotechnology borrowed from Reed Richards. Traveling to Counter-Earth
himself, he joins a group of human revolutionaries led by John Jameson
himself in resisting the High Evolutionary and his tyrannical rule, in
which humans are brutally oppressed and the half-human, half-animal
Beastials form the social elite. He also battles Venom and Carnage, who
traveled with Jameson to Counter-Earth and are plotting to infect the
entire planet with symbiotes. He is killed by Daemos of the Inheritors,
along with the Knights of Wundagore and many other Beastials.

Spidey-Man

A satirical version of mainstream Spider-Man in Not Brand Echh.

Ultimate 

Ultimate Peter Parker

Ultimate Spider-Man is a modernized reboot of the Spider-Man story,
starting from the very beginning, with a plot that is inspired by, but
very different from, the original continuity, and thus is a parallel
universe counterpart to the mainstream version of Spider-Man. The main
purpose of the series is to be accessible to new and young readers, as
it is free from the decades of history of the original, but it has been
embraced by many longtime fans as well.

In Ultimate Spider-Man, Peter Parker is a high-school student who is
bitten by a spider during a school field trip—but instead of a
radioactive spider (which reflected the Atomic Age in which Spider-Man's
origin was written), it is a lab subject that has been genetically
modified by Osborn Industries. The themes, characterization, and setting
are updated to reflect modern life. It is set in the Ultimate 
universe.

This Spider-Man also appears along Amazing, Noir, 2099 Spider-Men in the
game Spider-Man Shattered Dimensions wearing the black symbiote suit.

In Miles Morales: Ultimate Spider-Man #1 Peter Parker is revealed to
be alive and meets his successor for the first time.

The Spider

In the ongoing series Ultimate Comics: Avengers, a second Spider-Man
was shown to be one of its members, and is simply referred to as the
Spider, and his costume bears an orange-and-purple color, as opposed to
red-and-blue. In "Death of Spider-Man" story arc, "Avengers vs. New
Ultimates", he is revealed to be North Asian, and under the orders of
Gregory Stark, led a superhuman uprising in North Korea. During the
events of said uprising he was killed by Hawkeye after the Avengers and
the New Ultimates intervened.

Miles Morales

After Peter Parker's apparent death in Ultimate Comics Spider-Man #160
a new character by the name of MILES MORALES takes up the mantle of
Spider-Man as a thirteen-year-old superhero.

The Webslinger

On the sword and sorcery alternative Earth called Eurth THE WEBSLINGER
is the alternative version of Spider-Man that helps Captain Avalon
rescue his son from the Dreadlord.

What If?_

-   Alternative versions of Spider-Man appear in several issues of What
    If..?_. In one major alternative universe Spider-Man joins the
    Fantastic Four; this universe is revisited in several different
    issues of What If..?_
-   What if someone else besides Spider-Man had been bitten by the
    radioactive spider explores what would have happened if Flash
    Thompson, Betty Brant or John Jameson were bitten by the spider, but
    all three prove to be failures as the 'new' Spider-Man. Each story
    ends with Peter extracting the residual radioactive venom from the
    dead spider and using it to create a serum to give himself powers,
    thus becoming Spider-Man.
-   What if Spider-Man had never become a crimefighter explores a
    world where Spider-Man stopped the burglar and continued his
    television career, becoming a public relations 'specialist' for
    superheroes until Jameson's angry attack on him for slacking off
    with his powers results in Daredevil's death, inspiring Spider-Man
    to become a real hero.
-   What if the alien costume had possessed Spider-Man?_ sees
    Spider-Man being killed when he fails to go to Reed Richards for
    help in time to remove the symbiote, which goes on to drain the
    Hulk's powers and possess Thor until it is driven away by Black
    Bolt.
-   "What if?: The Other", set during "The Other" storyline, features
    an alternative version of Peter who abandons the Spider when given
    the choice. Some time afterward, the Venom symbiote leaves its
    current host Mac Gargan and merges with Peter to become Poison.
-   Another "What if?" universe has a version of Spider-Man who works
    side by side with his Uncle Ben to fight crime after Aunt May is
    killed.
-   Another issue portrays a Parker whom the radioactive spider bite
    mutated him into a spider creature, as well as making his son a
    mutant.
-   In a "What if?" Age of Apocalypse reality, in which both Charles
    Xavier and Eric Lensherr were killed, Apocalypse is served by clones
    of a symbiote Spider-Man, although the clones seem to be more
    symbiote than man.
-   In "What If? Spider-Man vs. Wolverine" Spider-Man goes to Russia
    with Wolverine on a rescue mission and eventually becomes a
    Black-ops version. Through training alongside Wolverine he enhances
    his spider-sense and becomes more confident. He eventually decides
    to join up with Wolverine permanently and leave behind his old ways.
    He also develops a change to his web shooter which enables him to
    shoot bullets out of it, which he does, killing a man. He is shown
    in a sleeker black and red suit more fit for his new lifestyle.
-   What If? Grim Hunt shows what would happen if Spider-Man were to
    have proceeded in killing Kraven by Julia Carpenter, now possessing
    Madam Web's powers. Peter appears with long hair and was kicked out
    of the Avengers for his killing of the Kravinoffs. He then develops
    a much colder and harsher personality and proceeds with attacking
    Harry Osborn. He then appears in a new red leather costume and
    starts killing all of the supervillains, with Doctor Octopus, and
    reveals his identity to his Aunt May, who is shocked and in
    tears.

Secret Wars

A number of alternate versions of Spider-Man appear in the warzones of
Secret Wars

-   In the Armor Wars reality, PETER URICH, aka SPYDER-MAN was killed
    after he discovered about the disease that forced everyone in that
    Warzone to wear armor. He was dating Kiri Oshiro,the daughter of
    Rumiko Fujikawa.
-   In an alternate Civil War reality, where the conflict continued
    after the anti-registration side's attempt to escape the Negative
    Zone prison triggered a self-destruct that destroyed most of New
    York, Peter continued serving on Captain America's side in the
    conflict, and was given new upgrades such as wings that bear a
    resemblance to the Falcon, with Rogers noting that Peter is now his
    fastest operative. Since Mary-Jane and his daughter Maybelle live on
    Iron Man's terrain due to them not getting the chance to evacuate,
    he hardly gets the chance to see them. Following Steve's death in
    the final battle, Peter becomes the leader of Steve's side, "the
    Blue", and collaborates with the new leader of "The Iron,"
    Jennifer Walters.
-   In a different version of Spider-Island, Spider-Man was supposedly
    killed by the spider infected Avengers which inspired Agent Venom to
    lead the resistance. However he is discovered to be alive and
    captive in the Spider Queen's facility. He aids Flash to stop the
    Spider Queen and becomes the baron of the city after she is defeated
    at the cost of Flash's life.
-   In Renew Your Vows,_ a story that has Spider-Man and Mary Jane
    married with a daughter named Annie (who is developing Spider powers
    of her own), Peter saves his family from Venom while most of the
    heroes die to Regent. He retires as Spider-Man to avoid detection
    from Regent and to focus on raising his family. However, he is later
    forced to don the mask again to stop Regent and protect his family.


Characters introduced in "Spider-Verse"

In the Spider-Verse event, a multitude of new Spider-Men (and women)
from throughout the multiverse are revealed.

Spider-UK

BILLY BRADDOCK alias Spider-UK, a British-based Spider-Man and a member
of the Captain Britain Corps. He became a sole survivor from
Earth-833 after his home reality was destroyed during Time Runs Out
and chose to remain in the reality of the defeated Inheritors along with
Anya Corazon. During the second volume of Spider-Verse set during
the Secret Wars event, Spider-UK and Anya Corazon found themselves in
the domain of the Battleworld called Arachnia with no memories of how
they got there. and eventually teamed up with Spider-Gwen,
Spider-Ham, Spider-Man Noir, and Spider-Man: India, neither of them
remembering their previous encounter during the original
Spider-Verse. Following the conclusion of Secret Wars the team
of six Spiders will rename itself and feature in a new ongoing series
called Web Warriors, a name that was coined by Peter Parker from the
Ultimate Spider-Man TV series during the original Spider-Verse.

Spider-Woman

An alternative teenage version of Gwen Stacy who was bitten by the
radioactive spider instead of Peter. On this Earth, Peter Parker's
anger at being bullied results in him transforming himself into the
Lizard. When he dies due to the chemicals he used in the transformation,
Gwen is inspired to use her powers to help others.

Other characters

-   AARON AIKMAN, a young scientist who fights crime using a
    gadget-laden suit of high tech body armor.
-   PATTON PARNELL, a disturbed, bullied teenager who upon being bitten
    by a radioactive spider, becomes a twisted, bloodthirsty variant of
    Spider-Man/Man-Spider.
-   PENI PARKER, a Japanese middle school student who was adopted by
    Aunt May and Uncle Ben following the death of her parents. She
    pilots a psychically-powered machine known as the SP//dr, which is
    partially controlled by a radioactive spider.
-   SPIDER-WOLF, A werewolf version of Spider-Man of Earth-13989 killed
    by Karn.
-   SPIDER MOON-MAN of Earth-449, where humans live on the moon.
-   HOSTESS TWINKIES CAKES ADVERTISEMENT SPIDER-MAN, a commercial
    purpose only Spider-Man who is killed by Morlun. This Spider-Man
    always defeats his enemies with Hostess-brand Cakes.
-   OLD MAN SPIDER of Earth-4 whose identity is that of Ezekiel
    Sims. He took the Spider-Man mantle after his reality's
    Peter Parker was killed by Morlun. He died during the Spiders' clash
    with the Inheritors but was able to inform Spider-Man (Earth-616) to
    protect the "Other" and the "Bride".
-   COSMIC SPIDER-MAN of Earth-13. This version of Spider-Man retained
    the powers of the Enigma Force. He is killed by the leader of
    the Inheritors, Solus.
-   CYBORG SPIDER-MAN of Earth-2818. Introduced during the Spiders'
    battle with Karn. He later dies at the hands of Daemos.
-   LADY SPIDER of Earth-803. In this reality, she is May Reilly. Her
    father keeps a large number of animals in his study and when she is
    bitten by a spider she tries to pet, she realizes that like the
    spider, she too is caged. Lady Spider does not have spider based
    superpowers, but instead uses a steampunk set of mechanical spider
    legs.
-   MAN-SPIDER: Peter Parker suffers a serious allergic reaction to the
    bite of the radioactive spider and is hospitalized. He is discovered
    by the Six-Armed Spider-Man and Spider-Man Noir. In this reality,
    both Uncle Ben and Aunt May are at Peter's side in the hospital when
    their house is broken into; thus Uncle Ben is not killed by the
    burglar as in the main timeline. After he is cured by the
    dimension-traveling Spider-Men one remarks "...in at least one
    reality the Parker family has a happy ending."
-   SPIDER-PUNK (or THE ANARCHIC SPIDER-MAN) of Earth-138. He is an
    African-American punk rocker named Hobart Brown who joins the
    Spiders' battle with the Inheritors. On his own world, he helped
    lead a populist revolution against the corrupt police and government
    who oppressed the people.
-   SPIDER-GIRL of Earth-11. This version is an 11-year-old girl named
    Penelope Parker who gains spider powers after being bitten by a
    radioactive spider. She dons a homemade costume and becomes
    Spider-Girl, despite viewing her new powers as "gross".
-   HOBGOBLIN (PETER PARKER) of Earth-21205. After Gwen Stacy died, an
    enraged Peter murdered the Green Goblin and becomes this universe's
    version of the Hobgoblin. Spider-Woman (Gwen Stacey) attempts to
    recruit him while on the run from the Inheritor, Verna. He dies
    saving Gwen from Verna.
-   SPIDER-MAN OF MEXICO. The son of a Luchadore who died after being
    betrayed by his tag team partner, this version of Spider-Man
    protects the streets of Mexico City and wears a costume inspired by
    that of his father.
-   REGENCY SPIDER-MAN. This Spider-Man is first glimpsed during the
    decisive battle with the Inheritors on Loomworld debating what makes
    him and another black-suited Spider-Man different. In the end, this
    Spider reckons their differences come down to the "little things".
    It is revealed that this Spider is married.
-   SPIDER-MA'AM. On Earth-3123, Aunt May was bitten by the radioactive
    spider instead of Peter, and takes the identity of Spider-Ma'am. She
    and her family are confronted by Karn. Sensing that he's too strong
    for her, she proposes to offer her life for the sake of her family,
    causing Karn to hesitate for a moment (because she reminded him of
    his mother). Before Karn kills her, other Spider Totems intervene
    and convince him to join them.


Minor references

-   In the "Age of Apocalypse", Peter Parker is executed by Apocalypse's
    regime simply because he is a potential ally for rebel Gwen Stacy.
-   Peter Parker's counterpart on Counter-Earth is mentioned as having
    "died from radioactive over-exposure".
-   Spider-Man was depicted as one of many death victims in Punisher
    Kills the  Universe,  Universe vs. the Punisher
    and Deadpool Kills the  Universe.
-   In the Earth-691 continuity Spider-Man is a time-traveler who aids
    Killraven in fighting a second invasion by the Martians from H. G.
    Wells' The War of the Worlds, during which he is killed.
-   In Old Man Logan, Spider-Man was killed (possibly by Venom) during
    or sometime after the big battle between heroes and villains, where
    the villains won. In this timeline, he married an unknown African
    American woman and had a daughter, who eventually married Hawkeye
    and had a child of their own. Hawkeye won in a poker game and
    customized the Spider-Mobile after his death.
-   Deadpool encounters a version of Spider-Man in a universe which he
    refers to as "an Age of Apocalypse" (not the Age of Apocalypse).
    This alternative version of Spider-Man is Pestilence, a Horseman of
    Apocalypse. He has six arms, poisonous fangs, and engages in
    cannibalism.
-   In the X-Men Forever universe, after the X-Men have faked their
    deaths, Spider-Man runs into Rogue during a patrol, Rogue having
    recently unintentionally absorbed Nightcrawler's powers
    and appearance. Testing her new powers, Rogue spends the night
    fighting crime alongside Spider-Man, later suggesting that the two
    kiss to see how her recent transformation has affected her
    original abilities. After Spider-Man assists the X-Men in destroying
    a group of Sentinels, the X-Men return to the manor, Cyclops
    concluding that Spider-Man can be trusted to keep the secret of
    their continued survival.


In other media

There also contain many other versions of Spider-Man outside of comic
books. Some in film, in television or in video games among countless
other media. Some characters have crossed over in the comic book canon
as one of the separate incarnations such as the Ultimate Spider-Man
animated series version appearing in "Spider-Verse".

