AMANDA SEFTON (real name JIMAINE SZARDOS) (also known as DAYTRIPPER and
the second MAGIK) is a fictional character, a witch in the 
Universe. She is the foster sister and former lover of Kurt Wagner,
Nightcrawler of the X-Men.


Publication history

Amanda Sefton first appeared in Uncanny X-Men #98 (April 1976),
created by Chris Claremont and Dave Cockrum. She has appeared
occasionally in X-Men titles, probably most often in Uncanny X-Men and
Excalibur.

As Magik, Amanda had her own eponymous, four-issue mini-series in
2000–2001 from writers Dan Abnett and Andy Lanning, with artist Liam
Sharp. The series focused on her taking over Limbo (also known as
Otherplace). The series also featured her foster brother/lover,
Nightcrawler.


Fictional character biography

Jimaine and her mother Margali are witches. When Nightcrawler joined the
X-Men, Jimaine followed him, assumed the identity of AMANDA SEFTON, took
a job as a flight attendant, and became Nightcrawler's girlfriend. When
Margali attacked the X-Men, believing Nightcrawler to have been
responsible for the death of Stefan Szardos, her son and Jimaine's
brother, "Amanda" revealed herself as Jimaine, convinced her mother to
let Kurt live and resumed her on-and-off relationship with him. Their
relationship broke apart when Kurt suffered a severe case of self-doubt
following an encounter with the Beyonder upon the latter's arrival on
Earth.

Daytripper

Much later, in need of her magical abilities, Nightcrawler called his
former girlfriend Amanda Sefton to aid Excalibur. For dramatic reasons
she chose to adopt the codename DAYTRIPPER, kind of playing on Kurt’s
codename, and presented herself in a new costume. Once familiarized with
the problem at hand, Amanda did the best she could to help Meggan and
Rachel locate the lost Captain Britain in the timestream, but as they
made contact they only achieved to exchange Brian for Rachel, who in his
place entered the timestream to emerge in some farfetched future.

Following this incident Kurt and Amanda traveled to Germany, where their
mother Margali had been taken captive by D’Spayre. As Kurt wondered
how such a powerful sorceress could be held captive against her will,
Daytripper explained that the Winding Way is not only a mystic
discipline, but also it functions like a journey with ups and downs.
Currently Margali was at a low point and powerless or else D’Spayre
could never have defeated her. The pair rescued their mother and Amanda
returned with Kurt to Excalibur.

Back on Muir Island, Amanda was the only one who recognized that the
team’s scientist Rory Campbell was the man destined to become the future
mutant hunter Ahab, but she promised him to keep her knowledge secret
and offered to be there for him whenever the need would arise.

Around this time she suffered a mystical/telepathic attack on a plane
while taking a shift under her air hostess job. It involved the fate of
the Black Queen.

After Excalibur had been attacked by opposing sorcerers trying to
acquire the Soul Sword of the deceased Illyana Rasputin, Amanda
convinced Shadowcat to give her Magik’s Soul Sword for safe-keeping.
Amanda thought it best to hand the sword over to her mother, however,
only too late did Amanda realize that she was tricked by her own mother,
who wanted the Soulsword to kill all those ahead of her on the Winding
Path.

Even though she had never been more powerful it wasn’t enough for
Margali and so in disguise she joined the London Hellfire Club as their
Red Queen, proceeding their plan to destroy London and take over
Britain. Shortly after helping to defeat her mother and the Hellfire
Club, Amanda left Excalibur without even telling Nightcrawler.

In actual fact, it was not Amanda who made that decision, but Margali
who had taken over her body. Upon her defeat among the Hellfire Club,
Margali had been captured by Belasco, and been tortured in his realm,
from where she secretly switched minds with her daughter so that she
could recuperate and win back her freedom and her position on the
Winding Way. Eventually Margali, using Amanda’s body, made her way back
to Limbo, where mother and daughter switched back and defeated Belasco
with Nightcrawler’s help. Margali apologized for exposing her daughter
to such danger, but then quickly left. Only after she was gone, Amanda
realized that with both her and Belasco gone, there was no one left
besides her capable enough to take over as Limbo’s new ruler. To leave
the dimension unguarded seemed too dangerous, given that several demons
could have used its stepping disks to invade earth.

Magik

Amanda decided not to return to Earth with Kurt but instead agreed to
rule Magik's Limbo (not to be confused with Immortus' Limbo) and took
the title of MAGIK for herself.

It was during this time that Amanda was forced to thwart Belasco and the
N'Garai’s takeover of Limbo, and Earth, where she was forced to conceal
her identity from her closest friends, until the end of the battle where
those who had not already worked out that she was not Illyana, learned
of Amanda's new role. Following that, Amanda rallied together the rulers
of all other various dimensions of Hell to unite them in a common goal:
The preservation of Hell.

Amanda has also mastered the ability to magically control the stepping
disks of Limbo, just like Belasco did before her, and practiced to wield
the Soulsword. During one of Nightcrawler's trips to Limbo, Amanda
secretly hid the powerful Soulsword in Kurt’s body, thinking it was safe
there since his soul was the purest that she could find. There was a
shift in the cosmic balance, powerful forces at work, and one thing they
were after was the Soulsword, and indeed not much later, Amanda was
attacked and overpowered by Nightmare. She was rescued by the timely
arrival of her mother Margali, and together, mother and daughter found
out that Nightmare had been manipulated into attacking them by someone
else. Amanda and Margali immediately sought out Nightcrawler to warn
him, but upon their arrival the demon Hive revealed himself and took
over the body of Nightcrawler’s teammate, Wolverine.

Gradually, the demon’s essence was disrupted by the Soulsword, though
not before he revealed that there is a major war coming, one that has
been brewing for a millennium, and that the entire Szardos family factor
very importantly into it.

Driven out of Limbo

Amanda resurfaced in New X-Men when she plunged out of a dimensional
portal in a blast of flaming energy and landed in a small German
village. She pleaded, "Help me...someone please...He's back." Amanda was
driven out of Limbo after being overwhelmed by an invasion led by
Belasco, although she had fought and defeated him in the past, Belasco
now appeared more powerful and, without the Soulsword, Amanda was no
match.

She assisted New X-Men Hellion and Surge as well as O*N*E Sentinel
operative (and former mutant) Lex in finding students that were
kidnapped by Belasco. The students were saved due to Illyana Rasputin
usurping control of Limbo. Once the heroes were teleported back to
Xavier's school though, Amanda found Limbo to be sealed off.

While Pixie has stated that she has been approached by both Amanda and
Doctor Strange about furthering her magical tutelage when she comes of
age, Amanda's whereabouts remained unknown for some time, but she was
recently mentioned by Cyclops in the aftermath of Second Coming when he
was writing her a letter of condolence over the death of
Nightcrawler.

Family reunion

After Nightcrawler's resurrection and some period of readjustment,
he seeks out Amanda for a romantic reunion, but then Amanda is attacked
and almost kidnapped by a villain calling himself Trimega. After
Nightcrawler and his Bamfs subdue Trimega, he and Amanda seek out their
mother Margali to find an answer to this mysterious attack. Despite
Amanda's misgivings to get involved with her mother again, Nightcrawler
chose to grant her sanctuary in the Jean Grey School for Higher
Learning; but then an army of Trimegas commenced an attack on the
school. During the course of the battle, it turned out that Margali was
actually Trimega's creator and had orchestrated the attack in order to
gain knowledge of how to cross into the Afterlife. Armed with that
knowledge, Margali opened a portal, whose existence would have
endangered reality. In order to stop her scheme, Nightcrawler and Amanda
attempted to pass the gate, but Nightcrawler's voluntary exile from
Heaven barred him from entry, stranding Amanda alone in the Void.
They meet again when Nightcrawler, fatally stabbed in combat by the
Crimson Pirates, is intercepted by Amanda at an "interim station"
between life and death, successfully encouraging him - with some
assistance from Wolverine and Phoenix - to return to the land of the
living.


Powers and abilities

Amanda is a sorceress following the path of the Winding Way. Her power
does change in its levels, it waxes and wanes over time, allowing her to
summon such powers as teleportation, illusions casting, shape changing,
mystical force bolts, hypnotism, and the manipulation of other complex
mystical forces.

When she became the Sorceress Supreme of Limbo, Amanda began wielding
the powerful Soulsword and while she couldn't access the full power of
the sword, she could still create and control teleportation energies in
the form of "stepping discs", to absorb souls of others either
permanently or to simply store and transfer, to place and store the
sword in absolute nothingness and to retrieve it from whence it came
with ease, and like Illyana Rasputin, the more Amanda used the
Soulsword, the more mystical Eldritch armor appeared on her body in
addition to demonic features such as horns and hooves. The armor
deflects or limits attacks, both physical and magical. However, on
Earth, Amanda's abilities are limited to a different capacity. She as
since lost these abilities when Limbo was sealed to her and resumed her
normal display of powers.


Other versions

In the "Days of Future Past" timeline, Amanda and Nightcrawler have a
daughter Blue who inherited her father's appearance and similar
teleporting powers. Amanda and Nightcrawler, along with that timeline's
version of Illyana Rasputin, were gunned down by a government
strikeforce deployed to destroy the Xavier Institute after Senator
Robert Kelly was assassinated.

In the  Mangaverse setting, Amanda Sefton is a dark sorceress, who
uses Rogue to battle the electromagnetic demon Magnus.


Television

Amanda Sefton appears in the 1995 X-Men episode "Nightcrawler" in her
Jimaine Szardos guise. She appears in flashback as Nightcrawler
describes his time as a circus performer and has no lines.

In X-Men: Evolution, Amanda Sefton appears as Nightcrawler's love
interest, but she does not have most of the background of her comic
counterpart. Her mother's name remains Margali, but the Seftons appear
to be a normal family. She is portrayed as an American teenager of
African/Romany decent who accepts Kurt completely despite his mutation.
She was voiced by Moneca Stori. In her first episode, "Shadow Dance",
Amanda asks Kurt to be her date for a school dance and tells him that
she did have a crush on him for months but was too shy to tell him, and
that her feelings remained even after she once accidentally saw him
turning off his image inducer. They start dating seriously, and after a
time ("The Toad, the Witch and the Wardrobe") Amanda attempts to
introduce Kurt - as his true self - to her parents. The intention is
ruined by Toad, who steals Kurt's image inducer, demolishing the Sefton
home and blowing Kurt's cover before Amanda can properly prepare her
parents. Even though Amanda's parents are understandably upset, Amanda
shrugs off any discomforts which they might bring into her relationship
with Kurt, and continues to date him.


Literature

Sefton is a supporting character in the novel 'Soul Killer' by author
Richard Lee Byers. She is possessed by Belasco as part of a plan to
bring the Elder Gods to Earth.

