ANT-MAN (SCOTT LANG) is a fictional superhero appearing in American
comic books published by . Created by David Michelinie and
John Byrne, Scott Lang first appeared in The Avengers #181 (March
1979) and in  Premiere #47 (April 1979) as the second superhero
character to use the ANT-MAN name in the  Universe. He is a
reformed thief and an electronics expert. He was a member of the
Avengers, a featured character in the FF comic series and in 2015
became the title character in the Ant-Man comic.

Scott Lang was an ex-convict and electronics expert hired by the Stark
International, which enabled him to steal the Ant-Man suit from Hank Pym
who had long since given up the name. Lang stole the suit to help his
sick daughter, which, when Pym found out, caused Pym to give the suit to
Scott, allowing him to become the second Ant-Man. As Ant-Man he served
as an Avenger for years, until he was killed during the Avengers
Disassembled storyline. Years later he was resurrected in the
Avengers: The Children's Crusade mini series. Following his
resurrection, Lang was briefly the head of the Future Foundation.

Paul Rudd portrays Scott Lang in the 2015  Studios film Ant-Man
and will reprise his role in two upcoming films (2016's Captain
America: Civil War and 2018's Ant-Man and the Wasp).


Publication history

Created by David Michelinie and John Byrne, Scott Lang first appeared in
The Avengers #181 (March 1979) and as the second Ant-Man in 
Premiere #47 (April 1979).

Ant-Man appeared prominently in the 2012's FF series by Matt Fraction
and Mike Allred.

An ongoing series focusing on Lang, titled simply Ant-Man written by
Nick Spencer and drawn by Ramon Rosanas, began in January 2015.


Fictional character biography

Early life

Scott Edward Harris Lang was born in Coral Gables, Florida. A movie
fanatic, he turned to burglary when his occupation as an electric
engineer failed to provide him with enough excitement in life. (This
was later retconned with the statement that he did so because he
couldn't support his family.) Apprehended, Lang served his prison
sentence and was paroled after four years for good behavior. In prison,
he furthered his study of electronics and was soon hired by Stark
International to work in its design department. Under Tony Stark's
direction, he helped install a new security system in Avengers
Mansion.

The second Ant-Man

When his daughter Cassie became seriously ill, Scott Lang decided to
return to burglary as a final resort. He broke into Dr. Hank Pym's
home and stole the Ant-Man suit and shrinking gas canisters. Garbed as
Ant-Man, Lang broke into Cross Technological Enterprises and discovered
that Dr. Erica Sondheim, the only person capable of helping his
daughter, was being held prisoner by Darren Cross. He rescued the doctor
from Cross' clutches and was relieved when Sondheim was able to save his
beloved Cassie's life. Lang had intended to return the Ant-Man suit to
Pym and turn himself in for its theft but Pym, aware of the use to which
Lang had put the stolen goods, offered to let him keep them, provided he
only use them to uphold the law.

Hero

Shortly after, Scott Lang donned the Ant-Man costume on various
occasions, primarily to assist Iron Man and the Avengers. Scott came to
the rescue when Iron Man was trapped in his armor in the aftermath of a
system overload. He also helped Yellowjacket (Hank Pym's alias at the
time) attempt to rescue the Wasp captured by Dr. Parnell Solomon, and
alongside the Avengers he first battled Taskmaster. He then battled
Odd John's mutated insects, and encountered Biotron of the
Micronauts. Alongside Spider-Man, he again battled Taskmaster,
exploiting Taskmaster's belief that he was Pym by using his growth
capsules on one of his ants as a surprise tactic. As Lang, he
attempted to stop the Raiders at a Dallas electronics engineers
convention. He then battled the malfunctioning GARD computer security
system at Stark International. As Lang, he aided Iron Man and Jim
Rhodes against Mauler. He then met the Fantastic Four, and on their
behalf first journeyed to a "micro-world", and battled there alongside
the Thing.

Scott was instrumental in helping Iron Man discover who possessed copies
of his technology during the Armor Wars storyline. He also aided
the Avengers in infiltrating Taskmaster's henchmen-training facility,
battling the Taskmaster alongside Hawkeye, and visited Henry Pym while
he was in prison. He encountered Rick Jones and Alpha Flight, and
then battled Dire Wraiths alongside Rom and Starshine. Scott was
serving in an Avengers back-up team created when Baron Zemo's Masters of
Evil took control of the Mansion and captured some of the current team;
he even helped the Wasp defeat the Absorbing Man and Titania when they
attacked a hospital in an attempt to kill a comatose Hercules. He
accidentally shrank Spider-Man and battled the Scarlet Beetle. He
also battled Dragonfly.

Lang was even briefly hired by the Fantastic Four to serve as their
technical consultant when Reed Richards was missing and presumed
dead, helping them deal with such foes as the Dark Raider — an
alternate psychotic Reed Richards who'd failed to save his world from
Galactus — until Reed was recovered from the past where he'd been
trapped thanks to Hyperstorm. Also serving with the Fantastic Four at
this time was Kristoff Vernard, the heir of Doctor Doom and himself a
technical genius. Lang and Kristoff often clashed, the younger man being
very arrogant and disparaging of Lang's abilities. He did, however.
design a new Ant-Man outfit which Lang took full advantage of. Much to
Lang's annoyance, Kristoff also became close to his daughter Cassie who
took a liking to him.

Lang later returned to form a temporary Fantastic Four with the Human
Torch, She-Hulk and Namorita when the other three were temporarily
trapped in the Negative Zone, the team disbanding after the other
team members returned.

Lang played an important role in helping Mister Fantastic cure the Hulk,
who was suffering from Lou Gehrig's disease; using a cure devised by
Leader, Lang shrank down to microscopic size, entered Hulk's genes, and
replaced the damaged genes causing the disease with healthy genes taken
from the corpse of Bruce Banner's father, the energy surge released when
Hulk returned to human form integrating the new genes into Hulk's system
and curing of the disease.

After his ex-wife Peggy Rae gained custody of their daughter, Lang
accepted an offer to join the Avengers officially. His personality
clashed immediately with fellow Avenger Jack of Hearts. However, in
Avengers vol. 3 #76, Jack helped save Cassie from a child-murderer,
shortly before committing suicide by traveling into space with the
murderer and exploding rather than return to the containment cells
required to control his power.

He also appeared in the series Alias by Brian Michael Bendis, where he
dated the leading character Jessica Jones, a former costumed superhero
named Jewel who left that avocation to become a private
investigator.

He assists her in a matter with Mattie Franklin, one of the many female
heroes to take the Spider-Woman name. Assisting the duo is S.H.I.E.L.D.
agent Clay Quartermain. Purple Man uses his powers to make it seem
as if Scott had been consumed by ants.

"Death"

When Jack of Hearts reappears on the grounds of Avengers Mansion in a
zombified state, Scott Lang rushes to Jack, only for Jack to blow
himself up, destroying much of the mansion and seemingly killing Scott.
This Jack may have been some type of "apparition" created by an insane
Scarlet Witch rather than the actual Jack of Hearts, starting the crisis
known as Avengers Disassembled.

His daughter Cassie Lang subsequently takes the name Stature as a member
of the Young Avengers, having apparently taken enough Pym particles over
the years to enable Cassie to automatically grow and shrink in size
whenever she wants.

His Ant-Man helmet falls into Amadeus Cho's possession for a time with
Cassie's blessing, choosing to focus on the insect mind-controlling
abilities.

Return

During the events of the limited series Avengers: The Children's
Crusade, Iron Lad takes the Young Avengers and an amnesiac Wanda
Maximoff into the past, back to the day that the events of Avengers
Disassembled began. Here, despite Iron Lad's assurance that they could
not interact, Scott Lang is hugged by his daughter, and to take him away
from the zombified Jack of Hearts who is revealed to be the real Jack of
Hearts under the control of an insane Scarlet Witch. When Jack explodes,
the Scarlet Witch regains her memories and returns them to the present,
including Scott (thus his death is retconned as having never actually
happened, as he was merely taken from his time and brought forward).
Scott is proud that his daughter followed in his footsteps. However,
a subsequent battle ensues (regarding the fate of the Scarlet Witch)
involving the Avengers, Young Avengers, X-Men, Magneto, X-Factor and
Doctor Doom. In the course of the fight, Scott is seemingly killed by
Doom, although he actually survives relatively unscathed; enraged,
Cassie attacks but Doom kills her, much to Scott's grief.

Then, Scott joins the new Defenders team composed of Doctor Strange,
Silver Surfer, Namor, Red She-Hulk, Iron Fist and Black Cat.

Eventually, Lang became the second Future Foundation's leader replacing
Reed Richards when the Fantastic Four went on a time travel trip.
Still suffering from his daughter's death, he decided to aim all the
Foundation's resources towards making Doctor Doom pay for his crime; in
the meantime he engaged in a romantic relationship with Darla Deering,
aka Ms. Thing.

After a heated battle, Scott managed to exact his revenge on Doctor Doom
by gradually overwhelming and defeating him, and by having him believe
he had killed Valeria Richards. He also determined the true meaning of
Pym Particles, and how they operate on three distinct axes determining
size, strength and durability.

During the AXIS storyline, a now-heroic and repentant Doctor Doom used
Scarlet Witch's powers to resurrect Cassandra Lang, seeking to atone for
at least one of his crimes; she turned out alive and well on Scott's
doorstep.

Following this, Lang moved to Miami to start a new life as well as to
spend more time with his daughter. Scott later established Ant-Man
Security Solutions. When he was attacked by Grizzly mistaking him for
Eric O'Grady unaware of the latter's death, Scott had to clearing up the
misunderstanding. Afterwards, Scott offered Grizzly a job in the
company. When Cassie was kidnapped by Crossfire on behalf of
Augustine Cross to use Cassie's Pym-particle irradiated heart could
revive the very first villain Scott had fought, Scott was forced to turn
to Grizzly and his fellow supervillain Machinesmith to infiltrate Cross'
plant to save his daughter. With Machinesmith disabling all the security
Scott was able to get into Cross Technologies and fight his way to
Darren Cross, whom Dr. Sondheim was blackmailed into reviving using
Cassie's heart. Darren engaged in combat against Ant-Man while the
hero tried to buy time for Sondheim to transplant another heart into
Cassie. After Cross was forced to flee when the Pym Particles now in his
body caused him to shrink down, Scott shrank down to microscopic size,
and was guided by Sondheim to attack Cassie's white cells and allow her
body accept the new heart's tissue. Even though the procedure was
difficult, Scott was finally able to help Cassie survive the experience.
When Peggy and Blake arrived, Sondheim told her that Cassie suffered an
infraction and Scott took them to her. Although he saved his daughter,
Scott decided to distance himself from her so that she could have a
normal life.

Some months ago, Ant-Man helped Giant-Man into rescuing a computer
technician named Raz Malhotra from Egghead. Months later after the
incident where Hank Pym and Ultron were fused together with Pym
seemingly perishing as a result of the fusion, Scott received one of
Pym's labs. Recalling his encounter with Raz, Scott sent Raz a present
in the form of the Giant-Man suit.

During the "Last Days" part of the Secret Wars storyline, Ant-Man
recovers an unnamed Asgardian artifact from Slug which he won from Mary
Morgan in a game of contact bridge. Ant-Man delivers the goods to Mary
Morgan where he learns that she is Miss Patriot. Mary Morgan revealed
that Valhalla Villas is a retirement home for Golden Age heroes and
villains where they live out their days in blissful remembrance. Mary
Morgan then assembles the residents of Valhalla Villas like Golden Girl,
Doctor Fear, Thunderer, Leopard Girl, Human Top, Sun Girl, American Ace,
Flash Foster, and Wax Master. Using the Asgardian artifact, Mary Morgan
rejuvenated the Valhalla Villa residents as Miami sees the unexpected
resurgence of characters from the Golden Age. Mary decides to remain
elderly since the past was too much to bear the first and only time.
Scott then visits his ex-wife Peggy Rae in an attempt to see his
daughter Cassandra Lang. Peggy puts Scott in his place due to him making
no effort to visit her since she was in the hospital. Peggy also tells
Scott that Cassandra is at a school excursion to Atlanta. While drinking
at a nightclub, Ant-Man encounters Janice Lincoln and tries to take her
down, only to get blasted. Janice states to Ant-Man that he should party
like there is no tomorrow since it is the last night on Earth. Ant-Man
takes in Janice's suggestions as they both hit the dance floor. He wakes
up the next morning with Janice in his bed as the final parts of the
Incursion occur.

As part of the All-New, All-Different  event, Ant-Man becomes a
target of Whirlwind when Power Broker offers a demonstration of the
Hench App to Darren Cross. When Cross was unable to pay #12,000,000.00
to Power Broker, Whirlwind received orders to not attack Ant-Man.
Ant-Man later helped Darla Deering when she was attacked by the second
Magician (the son of the original Magician) when he was hired by a
publicist named Marlena Howard through the Hench App to pretend to have
a grudge against her.


Powers and abilities

Using a gaseous form of "Pym particles" kept in a compartment in his
belt, Ant-Man had the power to shrink himself (and other people and
objects along with himself) to the size of an ant and return to normal.
Over time, he has acquired the ability to change size at will, seemingly
without the need for the gas. His cybernetic helmet allows rudimentary
telepathic communication with insects, and is equipped with sound
amplification equipment allowing normal-sized humans to hear him. The
helmet also has a retractable plexiglass face shield and a limited air
supply. Lang retained his normal strength in ant size.

Scott Lang can also shrink to sub-microscopic size, and thereby enter
the countless "subatomic universes".

He has advanced training and expertise in electronics, having earned an
electronics technician certificate, plus additional advanced electronics
training he received while in prison. At times, Lang even made his own
modifications to the Ant-Man equipment, such as installing the Pym gas
dispenser in his helmet rather than leaving it on his belt, or
mounting an electric disruptor into his helmet for offensive
purposes.


Other versions

Avengers Fairy Tales

Scott Lang is seen in the "Alice in Wonderland" issue of Avengers Fairy
Tales, where he is the Caterpillar as a representation of Cassie's dead
father.

House of M

In House of M, Scott Lang is depicted dating Jessica Jones.

MC2

In the MC2 universe, Scott Lang had retired from being Ant-Man, and was
developing new technology that would give the powers of Ant-Man and the
Wasp to a human (his daughter took the tech and became Stinger). Later,
when Mainframe was severely damaged, Scott came out of retirement with
the Ant-Man armor designed by Doctor Doom (Kistoff Vernard), and shrank
to microscopic size to repair him from the inside. He realized that he
still enjoyed being a hero, and stayed "un-retired" and joined A-Next.

The Thunder Guard, a group of Nazi Avengers from an alternate universe
who fought A-Next, included a mentally highly unstable version of Scott
called "Pincer" who had killed that universe's version of Cassie.

Ultimate 

The Ultimate  version of the character is DAVID "DAVE" SCOTTY, one
of the Giant-Men that was utilized on the Ultimates' Reserves.
During a legion of vampires' attack, he was among those that guard the
S.H.I.E.L.D. Triskelion. After vampires attack and bit him multiple
times, Scotty turned into a vampire. In the ensuing battle, Dave gets
killed by a fellow Giant-Man.

The actual Ultimate version of Scott Lang is the second major version of
GIANT-MAN. He appears as a member of the New Ultimates during a massive
showdown between the Ultimates and the Avengers. Lang later helps both
teams defeat Gregory Stark's forces in North Korea.

 Zombies

Scott Lang is seen with Nick Fury; he attempted to fight the zombies,
but he is overwhelmed and turned, last seen screaming. He is later seen
as a zombie. He is destroyed by the Power Cosmic Zombies again.

What If?_

In "What If Iron Man Lost the Armor Wars", Lang is captured while spying
on Justin Hammer, and taken prisoner along with Cassie. When Hammer is
later assassinated and his knowledge over the Iron Man armor claimed by
A.I.M., Scott and Cassie are taken hostage by them as well, but are
eventually freed by Stark clad in the Firepower armor.


In other media

Television

-   Scott Lang makes his animated debut in The Avengers: Earth's
    Mightiest Heroes, voiced by Crispin Freeman. This version's
    backstory as a criminal to help his daughter and gets caught mostly
    remains the same. He first appears in the episode "To Steal an
    Ant-Man" where he steals the Ant-Man suit to steal what he owed
    William Cross. Scott met to pay off Cross, however, William thought
    that Scott was Ant-Man all along and alters the deal. When Hank Pym,
    Luke Cage and Iron Fist help, Lang gets his daughter to safety and
    then defeats Cross. Despite being willing to turn himself in, Scott
    is deemed worthy by Pym to be the new Ant-Man and is possibly
    offered a spot on the Heroes for Hire. Ant-Man later makes a
    non-voiced appearance in the finale "Avengers Assemble" as one of
    the reserve Avengers that helps take down Galactus's Heralds.
-   Ant-Man appears in Avengers Assemble, voiced by Grant George. In
    the first season, he first appears as a minor character with Hank
    Pym's science-oriented background. In the second season, the
    character is officially revealed to be Scott Lang with his own
    AI J.O.E.Y. (voiced by Roger Craig Smith) and he joins the Avengers
    during a massive battle with Ultron and plays a central role against
    the Squadron Supreme and Thanos. Prior to season three, Scott
    went solo.
-   Ant-Man appears in Ultimate Spider-Man: Web-Warriors, voiced again
    by Grant George. He is a guest teacher at the Triskelion's
    S.H.I.E.L.D. Academy where he demonstrates his powers by knocking
    down Spider-Man during a demonstration. When Nick Fury is taken over
    by Doctor Octopus's nanobots to get free from the Triskelion's brig,
    he, Spider-Man and Power Man shrink down to remove the Octobots from
    Fury's body while the others pursue Doctor Octopus. While fighting
    their way though various nanobots (modeled after the Beetle, the
    Lizard and the Green Goblin), Ant-Man, Spider-Man and Power Man make
    their way to the heart to get to Fury's brain. As Ant-Man and Power
    Man are left busy fighting the nanobots (where some combined into
    one robot), Spider-Man learns from Fury's conscious that Doctor
    Octopus has set the Triskelion's reactor to meltdown. Once the
    nanobots are destroyed, the reactor overload is averted and Doctor
    Octopus is defeated, Spider-Man and Ant-Man visit Fury in the
    Triskelion's infirmary where Ant-Man admitted that Spider-Man's
    recklessness stopped Doctor Octopus's plot.
-   Ant-Man appears in the television special Lego  Super Heroes:
    Avengers Reassembled, voiced again by Grant George.
-   Ant-Man appears along with the Hulk in a Coke Mini commercial that
    premiered during Super Bowl 50, with Paul Rudd providing the voice
    of Ant-Man.

Film

[Paul Rudd as Scott Lang / Ant-Man in the 2015 film Ant-Man.]

-   Paul Rudd portrays Scott Lang in the 2015  Studios film
    Ant-Man, directed by Peyton Reed and written by Edgar Wright, Joe
    Cornish, Adam McKay and Rudd, based on a story by Wright and
    Cornish. This version depicts Lang as the successor of Hank Pym as
    Ant-Man as well as an apprentice of Hank Pym.
-   Paul Rudd reprises the role in the films Captain America: Civil
    War (2016) and the upcoming Ant-Man and the Wasp (2018).

Video games

-   The Scott Lang version of Ant-Man appears on  Heroes, voiced
    by Grant George.
-   The Scott Lang version of Ant-Man appears as a playable character in
    : Avengers Alliance.
-   The Scott Lang version of Ant-Man appears in  Contest of
    Champions, and : Future Fight.
-   The Scott Lang version of Ant-Man is a playable character in Disney
    Infinity 3.0.
-   The Scott Lang incarnation of Ant-Man appears as a playable
    character in Lego 's Avengers.
-   The Scott Lang version of Ant-Man is playable in the mobile game
     Avengers Academy, voiced by Toby Turner.

