APEX (KATY BASHIR) is a fictional character appearing in American comic
books published by .


Publication history

Apex first appeared in issue #1 of the Avengers Arena series as part
of the  NOW!_ event, and was created by Dennis Hopeless and Kev
Walker.


Fictional character biography

Apex is one of sixteen teenagers kidnapped by Arcade who forces them to
fight each other to the death in his latest version of Murderworld.
She is part of the Braddock Academy group (consisting of Kid Briton,
Anachronism, Bloodstone and Nara) which is joined by Death Locket
despite death threats from Kid Briton and Nara. Death Locket started
bonding with Apex as she introduces her to the rest of the Braddock
Academy.

There is discord in the Braddock Academy's ranks as Anachronism and Kid
Briton get into an argument. An earthquake then separates Bloodstone and
Anachronism from Apex, Nara, Kid Briton, and Death Locket. Death Locket
goes dormant as her cybernetics take over and she blasts Nara off a
cliff and into the ocean. Kid Briton is enraged by this and tries to
kill her until Apex orders him not to, revealing that she knew about his
affair with Nara back at the Braddock Academy and that "we're here now
and I'm done sharing."

Nara, Anachronism, and Bloodstone manage to survive falling into the
chasm and come to the conclusion that Apex is manipulating Death Locket
and Kid Briton to her own ends. The trio is then teleported by Arcade to
the supply cache at Quadrant 2 just as Apex, Death Locket, and Kid
Briton arrive. Nara and Apex start arguing and Apex confirms that she
was the one who ordered Death Locket to attack Nara. Kid Briton tries to
intervene as Nara continues calling him a "weak puppet." An irate Kid
Briton attempts to kill Nara for insulting him only to be beheaded by
Anachronism.

In a flashback, it was shown that Apex is actually the twins Katy and
Tim who ended up sharing a body following an experiment by their parents
gone wrong. Since then, both of them were unaware that they share the
same body. The battle between Chase Stein as Darkhawk and Juston Seyfert
was aborted when Tim's technopathic powers and the group's vote for
Tim/Katy's life or death. Juston was among those who voted for death.
When Tim reverted to Katy, Juston is murdered by Apex who breaks his
neck and then steals his Sentinel.

After being injured by Apex, Nico sacrifices herself by staying behind
in order to get some of the other survivors to safety. Nico is killed by
Chase and Juston Seyfert's Sentinel (both of whom were under Apex's
control). Nico is resurrected by the Staff of One and powered up
sufficiently to defeat Apex and trap her and Death Locket underground.
However, this had the unintended side effect of sending them underneath
the Arena into Arcade's lair.

Death

At the conclusion of the Avengers Arena storyline/series, Arcade
escapes when confronted by Apex, Death Locket, and the (now de-powered)
Darkhawk, but manages to secretly convince Apex to run Murderworld to
its conclusion by killing off the remaining heroes and then telling the
world how she was the tragic sole survivor.

As she gloats of her impending victory to Death Locket - still under her
control - and tells the cyborg how she'll unfortunately have to die as
well to keep Apex's secret and make the story sound plausible, Tim
regains enough mental strength to take over one last time. He eventually
convinces Death Locket to kill the Tim/Katy gestalt before his sister
comes back and takes over the body once and for all—he implies that she
has grown far too strong by now for him to ever displace her again—and
uses Murderworld to kill off everyone else (by this time, Apex had
already set off Murderworld's remaining traps and defenses, all at once,
to eliminate the survivors). Apex is then killed by Death Locket
off-panel.


Powers and abilities

Apex is a technopath capable of manipulating and reforming machines at
will. While the extent of these powers is unknown, she can manipulate
several machines at once, including the complex alien Darkhawk armor.
She is also capable of self-propelled flight although she can't reach
high speeds in the air. She is also a great manipulator and can——as she
says herself—talk people into almost anything. She shares her body with
her brother Tim and each struggles to gain control of it.

