ARES is a fictional character, a deity appearing in American comic books
published by . The character is based on the Greek god of
the same name. He first appeared in Thor (vol. 1) #129 (June 1966) and
was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. Ares has commonly appeared as an
enemy of Thor and Hercules and starred in his own self-titled series in
2006. In 2012, Ares was ranked 39th in IGN's list of "The Top 50
Avengers".

Ares, the Greek God of War, was initially depicted as a villain in the
 Universe, opposing Thor, Hercules and the The Avengers. Early on
his influence on Earth was less direct as he created an organization
known as the "Warhawks" and used them to create war on Earth.

In 2006 the character was recast to not be a villain but instead more of
an antihero who simply lived for battle, any battle. He was added to the
Avengers roster as one of their "heavy hitters" and showed himself to
have his own "Warriors Honor" codex and not the one-dimensional villain
he had been portrayed as in the past. He would later join Norman
Osborn's Dark Avengers, believing that he could put his powers to good
use. During the Siege storyline Ares is killed by Sentry as he is
literally torn apart.


Publication history

Ares first appeared in Thor #129, 1966, written by Stan Lee and drawn
by Jack Kirby. He would often appear as a villain in both Thor and
The Avengers over the next 30 years.

A 5-issue limited series, Ares, written by Michael Avon Oeming and
drawn by Travel Foreman, was published in 2006 and focuses on this
character. Since the release of the Ares miniseries he has been
portrayed as an antihero.

Following the superhero Civil War, Ares was invited to join the
official, S.H.I.E.L.D.-sponsored Mighty Avengers, led by Tony Stark,
and appeared in that title. He was one of only two members to remain on
the team after Norman Osborn took Stark's position, as part of the Dark
Reign storyline and appeared in the first Dark Avengers series
throughout its run. Ares subsequently starred in a three-issue Dark
Avengers: Ares miniseries written by Kieron Gillen. He appeared as a
regular character in the Dark Avengers series from issue #1 (March
2009) until the time of his death in the Siege limited series. After
the cancellation of Dark Avengers at the end of the Siege storyline
he is scheduled to appear in another limited series, Savage Axe of
Ares.

During the "Chaos War" storyline, Ares appeared in a one-shot comic
titles Chaos War: Ares.


Fictional character biography

Ares is the son of Zeus and is the Olympian God of War. Ares reveled in
war and combat in all its forms, not caring about sides or victims,
supporting Troy in the Trojan war. Ares has hated Hercules ever since
Hercules killed Ares' pets, the monstrous Stymphalian birds, and his
hatred increased when he noticed Hercules being favored by their father,
while he was shunned for his brutal behavior. Further adding to his
hatred, is that in modern times, war is shunned and disliked, whereas
Hercules is still beloved by the masses, despite his own history of
death and destruction. As the Romans took on worship of Greek gods
and renamed them, Ares is also the deity Mars.

After Zeus allowed the worship of the Greek/Roman gods to cease, the
dissatisfied Ares held a deep grudge and would try to overthrow Olympus
more than once. He refused to battle against Pluto on behalf of
Hercules, and aided Pluto instead. Hercules teamed up with the Asgardian
god Thor in order to defeat Ares, leading to Ares' retreat. Ares
fought a duel with Hercules, forming an alliance with the Enchantress to
make Hercules her slave and ally against the Avengers using water from
the Spring of Eros, which led to Hercules being exiled from Olympus for
a year.

Ares organized the Warhawks, which included Satyrs whose pipes caused
violence in humans, and with them battled the Avengers. He dispatched
Kratos and Bia to capture Hercules. After allying with the Enchantress
again, he used the Black Knight's Ebony Blade to quench the Promethean
Flame and conquer Olympus, by turning all the other Olympians to
crystal, although demigod Hercules was not transformed, but exiled to
Earth with amnesia, due to being brutally beaten by Ares' henchman the
Yellow-crested Titans and drifting between Olympus and Earth for six
days and nights. Ares sent the two demigods, Kratos and Bia, after
Hercules, and despite the Avenger's efforts Hercules was captured and
taken back to Olympus. Ares again battled the Avengers who had come to
rescue the captive Hercules, and was defeated by Thor and the Black
Knight.

Ares also battled Namor the Sub-Mariner and Venus. He formed another
alliance with Pluto, and kidnapped Krista in an attempt to foment war
between Olympus and Asgard. He also plotted with Pluto and Ares'
daughter Hippolyta to marry Hercules and Venus to Hippolyta and
himself.

It was revealed that in ancient times, he took part in the Trojan
War. Alongside Zeus, Ares struck an alliance with Odin against the
Eternals, and battled the Eternal Ikaris. Alongside his fellow
Olympians, Ares battled the Avengers at Zeus' behest. Ares was defeated
by Namor, and forbidden to set foot on Earth again by Zeus.

He frequently battled teams and individuals while working as a villain,
and continued to battle heroes like the Avengers.

Ares' uncle Pluto sought to overwhelm Mount Olympus with an army of the
dead, leading to a stalemate that the gods and demigods (including
Hercules and Achilles) were unable to break. In desperation to end the
siege of Olympus, Zeus called upon his son Ares who defeated Hades' army
almost single-handedly. Hoping that this would allow him to join his
kind in Olympus, Ares was disappointed to hear his parents and the other
gods disparage his "crude" and "dishonorable" nature. He abandoned his
brethren to live amongst mortal men, but did not completely give up his
god nature yet.

Ares tired of his own warmongering when he realized that was why the
other gods despised him and decided to live a normal life. He gave up
his position as god of war, but maintained his skills, weaponry, and
immortality. On Earth, he set himself up as a builder/carpenter. He
would later father a son with an unidentified mother.

The 2006 Ares miniseries begins with Ares living a relatively peaceful
life with his son, Alexander. This life is interrupted when Hermes
visits Ares with a request... help Olympus fight off a new threat from
the east, Amatsu-Mikaboshi (the Japanese god of evil). Taking advantage
of the chaos left by the fall of Asgard and the Norse pantheon,
Mikaboshi planned to extend his influence by capturing Olympus and
crushing the Olympian gods. With the Olympians defeated, Mikaboshi hoped
to cow all the other pantheons into surrendering. To this end, Mikaboshi
laid siege to Olympus, which was very close to succeeding. Ares, still
bitter about the treatment he received from the other Olympians, refuses
to raise a finger to help them. Desperate for his aid and wishing to
goad Ares into action, Zeus has Alexander kidnapped and brought to
Olympus where he is placed under the care of Achilles and his Myrmidons.
On Earth, Ares wages an assault against police forces, who have found
his social security number to be false. One of the policemen states that
the New Avengers have just formed as a team.

With the tide turning against them, Achilles goes to Earth to fetch an
enraged Ares in an attempt to get him to speak with Zeus, but Ares' only
concern is his son. Relenting, Achilles transports them both to
Achilles' stronghold where they were keeping Alexander, only to find the
fortress destroyed and Alexander missing.

While Achilles was away, Mikaboshi's forces managed to destroy the
Myrmidon fortress and steal Alexander away to his own stronghold in the
eastern lands. Mikaboshi slowly begins to warp Alexander's mind in an
attempt to turn him against his father by revealing the brutal history
and patricides committed by the Greek gods. Mikaboshi hopes to turn Alex
into the new god of war, one that could be used against the Greek gods
and, more importantly, Ares himself.

Finding out his son is in the hands of Olympus' enemies, a furious Ares
begrudgingly agrees to join in the fighting, but only to rescue his son.
He succeeds, but Zeus is killed by Mikaboshi although Alexander is
released of Mikaboshi's control and slices him apart with the
Grasscutter sword.

After the events of the Civil War storyline, Ms.  and Iron Man
recruited Ares as part of the new Mighty Avengers, citing their need for
"a Thor and a Wolverine" as their reasoning and Ms.  knows someone
who is a "Thor and Wolverine in one". Ares says he did not get involved
in the Civil War as "it was just a slapfight", choosing instead to live
a peaceful life as a civilian with his son, while working as a
construction worker, up until the Avengers blew his civilian cover. In
order to provide compensation and secure his services, Iron Man offered
him a higher salary than what he was making as a construction worker if
he joined the Avengers—after which Ares revealed that it would have to
be higher than $44/hour. Ares liked the fact that Iron Man would not
back down from a fight with him, and seemed to appeal to his sense of
pride by implying how great he is as a warrior. He claims that he did
not like the movie Troy.

As an Avenger, he seems often at odds, either vocally or internally,
with the team's methods of combat, and particularly chafes at orders to
stand down when he feels that the battle should continue. This seems to
show when Iron Man's robotic helper offered the team aid; instead of
letting them listen to it, Ares brutally destroyed the robot thinking it
was a trick much to the dismay of the others. He plays a major part
in defeating Ultron by getting the idea of and using the Ant-Man serum
to shrink down, then releasing a virus inside the body, despite the
defense system. He is almost killed, but the Wasp gets him out before
the transformation. He is also more likely to resort to violence first,
as his "infiltration plan" for getting into Castle Doom is ramming the
Quinjet into the castle walls.

During the events of World War Hulk, Ares was easily defeated by the
Hulk, after the Mighty Avengers face the Green King (Hulk) and his
Warbound.

However, in the aftermath of World War Hulk, the Hulk had been stopped
and Ares' brother, Hercules, who supported the Hulk's cause, was
captured. Ares goaded Hercules into rebuilding the fallen Stark Tower as
his punishment for aiding the Hulk during the war. However, Hercules
refused Ares' offer, attacked him, and escaped his enemies. Ares, Wonder
Man, and Black Widow then headed off to track and follow Hercules and
Amadeus Cho, though Ares showed preference for attacking and defeating
Hercules in battle as opposed to simply arresting them, going so far as
to knock Wonder Man unconscious when he counsels restraint in dealing
with Hercules.

During the Secret Invasion storyline, Ares was among the Mighty
Avengers who were fighting heroes from the Skrull ship. His son
Alexander was recruited for Nick Fury's Secret Warriors, by Daisy
Johnson, to oppose the Skrull invasion of New York City.

During the Dark Reign storyline, Ares has joined the Dark Avengers,
Norman Osborn's personal team of Avengers. Writer of the Dark
Avengers series, Brian Michael Bendis, described Ares' role: "Ares is
going to be a big part of this book. He's really going to step up and
use his War God brain." In the most recent run of War Machine
Osborn pitted Ares against the iron clad Avenger, only for the two to
realize their goal was one and the same, and Ares declared Rhodes as his
"champion." Despite this Ares unleashed a top secret weapon just for the
fun of it. During The Dark Avengers' first mission, "Venom-Spidey" is
turned into a monster by Morgan le Fay. Venom (under her control)
attempts to eat Ares. He is spit back out but is turned to stone
shortly thereafter by Morgana. He returns to normal when Morgana is
defeated by Dr. Doom in her own time. Ares later receives a truancy
notice in the mail regarding his son. Deciding to investigate as
best he can, he sends Alex to school, only to see him board Daisy
Johnson's scooter on the way to a new base for the Secret Warriors. Ares
tails them on his motorcycle and rampages his way in through the wall.
When Hellfire tries to attack, Ares easily dispatches him and in their
own silent way, Nick Fury and Ares ask for a private audience with one
another. Ares then uncharacteristically declares himself a horrid
father, but only aims to raise Alex differently than he and his father
were raised. He then peacefully leaves the place behind, allowing Alex
the opportunity to not have to hide his allegiance anymore. Ares
appears to have a new respect for Fury, since he simply let Fury walk
into Osborn's office and threw off helicopters attempting to chase Fury.

When the Dark Avengers and H.A.M.M.E.R. go to San Francisco to quell the
riots, Ares was stomping out a group of pro-mutant activists. Gambit
challenged him but was easily dispatched. Rogue tried absorbing his
powers which prove too much for her but nonetheless she manages to
weaken him. Danger, fearing that Rogue might injure herself threw an
energized manhole at Ares, pushing him away from Rogue. She gained half
of Ares' power as a result. The trio then hijack a H.A.M.M.E.R. tank and
leave a bleeding Ares behind.

Ares, having recovered from his injuries, is seen next during the Dark
Avengers' assault on the X-Men's new base Utopia (which was made from
the remains of the first Asteroid M). There he fights with several X-Men
until he is confronted with the once more empowered valkyrie Danielle
Moonstar. The two fight and are evenly matched with Dani quickly gaining
the upper hand due to having borrowed some power from Hela the Asgardian
death Goddess. Eventually both he and his team of Avengers are forced to
retreat.

Molecule Man turned Ares into stone during his fight with the Dark
Avengers, though the Sentry later restores him.

Before the Siege begins, Osborn is seen trying to convince Ares to
come up with a plan to invade Asgard, saying Loki has taken control of
it. Even though Osborn promises Ares that nothing is wrong, Ares tells
Osborn that if he is lying, he will 'cut his head off, armour and
all'. Once the Siege of Asgard begins, as the battle
intensifies, Ares finds himself battling Balder and learns from Heimdall
about Osborn's deceptions. When Osborn dispatches Daken to find Maria
Hill, he is struck down by Ares, who vows to kill Osborn for his lies.
However, Ares is suddenly attacked by the Sentry and a brutal battle
ensues, in which Ares is wounded while barely doing any damage to
Sentry. The battle then comes to a violent conclusion when the Sentry
rips Ares in half before the horrified eyes of the combatants on both
sides. Alexander, after finding out about his father's death,
recalls a time when he asked Ares if they would always be together, Ares
responded that, as they are gods, they can be killed, but they "will
never truly die" and tells him that he has experienced "this many, many
times", having been "to Hades and through the Underworld to awaken in
the fair Fields of Elysium...". Ares tells Alexander that he would one
day die, but promises him that he will always find him again.

During the Chaos War storyline, Ares is among the dead beings released
by Pluto in order to defend the Underworld from the forces of
Amatsu-Mikaboshi, but is ultimately defeated and enslaved bodily by the
Chaos King along with his fallen parents Zeus and Hera. Despite the
combined attacks of the newly assembled God Squad, Ares is unscathed and
engages Hercules in direct combat as Zeus and Hera battle Galactus and
the other members of the God Squad. Ares ultimately returned to the
underworld with the rest of the dead.

Ares and Alexander (who had been killed by Gorgon) are later seen
residing in the Elysian Fields. However, Ares is kidnapped and forcibly
resurrected by agents of the Maestro in order to serve as one of the
Collector's fighters in the new Contest of Champions. Though Ares agrees
to go along with the tournament, Stick claims that he's simply biding
his time until he can find a way to kill the Collector and the
Maestro.


Powers and abilities

Ares possesses the typical powers of an Olympian, including superhuman
strength, speed, agility, durability, reflexes, and virtual immortality,
though some of his powers are substantially greater than most other
Olympians.

Like all Olympians, Ares is superhumanly strong, though far more so than
the majority of his race. Among the Olympians, his physical strength is
equaled only by his uncles, Neptune and Pluto, and is exceeded only by
his father, Zeus, and his half-brother, Hercules. Ares' body and
metabolism generates almost no fatigue toxins during physical activity,
granting him virtually inexhaustible superhuman stamina in all physical
activities. Ares' body is also highly resistant to physical injury. He
can withstand great impact forces, energy discharges, temperature
extremes, and falls from great heights without being injured. However,
also like all other Olympians, he can sustain injury; once, after an
extensive self-imposed exile on the Earthly plane, Ares was physically
vulnerable enough to be injured and downed by mere bullets. At the
same time Ares has been shown withstanding being shot at point-blank
range from machine guns used by War Machine. Ares is functionally
immortal in the sense that he is immune to the effects of aging and
hasn't aged since reaching adulthood. He is also immune to any known
terrestrial disease or infection.

While not as accomplished at magic as many of his fellow Olympians, and
lacking the ability to fly, or to project energy, as an Olympian
god Ares has the potential to use magic. Ares can sense the presence of
other gods, demons, and the use of magic, call other gods, and transport
himself to Olympus and to Earth at will on certain occasions, (such as
abandoning his station as the God of War to lead a mortal life, or when
retreating to Olympus after Hercules wounded him in a fierce battle with
Kyknos). However, neither his rudimentary magic nor his Olympian
natural abilities were capable of overwhelming the Merlin-tutored Morgan
le Fay or preventing the mistress of the mystic arts from easily
transmuting him into stone.

He is, as fits his station as the Olympian God of War, a formidable
hand-to-hand combatant, possessing fighting skills superior to that of
even his father Zeus and his sister Athena; Nate Grey described him as
"war personified, on every plane...in every future" and admits that even
he can find nothing to counter one as Ares; when Nate hid himself and
Mimic "amongst time", Ares was able to tear through the fabric of time
itself to reach and overpower him (claiming that such could not "limit"
him), the temporal conflict sending ripples across the stars and
disrupting the timestream itself. In another instance, apparently
without aid, Ares was able to somehow bring himself and Alexander to
another dimension, where many gods of Earth, including the Council of
Skyfathers, had convened to judge his son's worthiness as the 'God of
Fear'. Ares was also able to somehow create the man-eating
Stymphalian birds "as a perfect expression of his own essence" ages
ago, and was also able to send his son Monstro from 1805 through
time into the mid-20th century as punishment for his renouncing war and
change him into a sixty-foot tall giant. He is also an expert with
numerous weapons, including ancient weapons and conventional, modern-day
firearms. In his earlier appearances, he typically carried Olympian
weapons like battleaxes, spears, swords, daggers, and a javelin (which
has been said to at least once be his "favorite" weapon), but his most
recent appearance shows him favoring a mixture of ancient, like the
jawbone of an ass, and modern weapons, like gases, rays, firearms, and
high-explosives, as well as "Hydra blood bullets", which contain the
lethal blood of a Lernaean Hydra. He is an aficionado, expert, and
collector of the most unusual instruments and methods of death dealing,
as well as being well-versed in torture, interrogation, and combat
tactics.

Ares sometimes wears Olympian battle armor and carries a mace, a sword,
and battle axe all forged from adamantine by Hephaestus. He sometimes
rides a chariot of enchanted Olympian horses. At one time, he possessed
the Gauntlets of Ares, which made its wearer gain strength comparable
to Hercules. He has since passed these on to his daughter Hippolyta.


Other versions

In the Age of Ultron storyline, the reality that formed from Wolverine
and Invisible Woman killing Henry Pym to prevent Ultron from being
created shows that Ares has become the new Doctor Doom after the
original died and is engaged to Morgan le Fay where they have conquered
half the planet. Hippolyta defeats Ares and takes back command of the
Amazons (who were subdued by Ares).


Collected editions

His series have been collected into trade paperbacks:

-   Ares: God of War (collects Ares #1-5, 120 pages, harover,
    November 2006, ISBN 0-7851-2333-4, softcover, November 2006, ISBN
    0-7851-1991-4)
-   Dark Avengers: Ares (collects Ares #1-5 and Dark Avengers:
    Ares #1-3, 192 pages, , softcover, April 2010,
    ISBN 0-7851-4406-4)


In other media

-   Ares appears in The  Super Heroes episode, "The Verdict
    of Zeus".
-   Ares is an unlockable character in the Facebook game :
    Avengers Alliance.
-   Ares is a playable character in the mobile game  Puzzle
    Quest.
-   Ares is an unlockable playable character in Lego 's
    Avengers.

