ARIEL is a fictional character, an extraterrestrial mutant appearing in
American comic books published by . Her first appearance
was in Fallen Angels (1st series) #1.


Publication history

Ariel first appeared in Fallen Angels (1st series) #1 (April 1987),
and was created by Mary Jo Duffy (writer), and Kerry Gammill (artist).

The character subsequently appears in Fallen Angels #2-8 (May–November
1987) and again much later in X-Men: Legacy #226 and 235. She appeared
to have been killed in X-Men Legacy #235, but writer Mike Carey later
stated that he deliberately wrote that scene the way he did so that it
would be possible that she could have survived. She returned to
publication in X-Men: Legacy #259.

Ariel received an entry in the Official Handbook of the  Universe
Update '89 #1.


Fictional character biography

ARIEL is an extraterrestrial native to the world known as the Coconut
Grove, home of a culture devoted to the pursuit of pleasure.

On Earth, Ariel encountered the mutant criminal known as the Vanisher
and joined his group of adolescents who worked for him as thieves.
Eventually this group became the team of young superhumans known as the
Fallen Angels. Though Ariel made no secret of her alien origins, she
withheld the true nature of her mission from most of her teammates,
except for the apparently powerless Chance, whom Ariel promised an
undisclosed payment in exchange for Chance's assistance. Using her
ability to bend space, Ariel transported the Fallen Angels to a distant
world where they encountered Devil Dinosaur and Moon-Boy. Again
through the use of Ariel's powers, the Fallen Angels returned to Earth,
joined by Devil Dinosaur and Moon Boy as new recruits to the team.

Finally, Ariel transported the Fallen Angels to her home planet under
the pretense of a "vacation", but after a period of being treated as
honored guests, the Angels were captured for use in the Grove natives'
experiments in mutation. Ariel was shocked to discover that Chance, who
had become her friend as well as co-conspirator, was among the
prisoners, having been found to be an emerging mutant with the power to
enhance or nullify other mutants' abilities. When pushed to choose
between her friendship and loyalty to her people, Ariel left Chance to
her fate, only to be rewarded for her racial loyalty with imprisonment;
Ariel had also been identified as a mutant, the first one of her race,
and thus doubly valuable as a test subject. She was determined to have
the power to subtly influence minds and compel others to obey her
commands. After the Fallen Angels escaped captivity, Ariel used her
power (bolstered by a show of force from Devil Dinosaur) to compel
Unipar, the leader of the Coconut Grove, to let them return to Earth.
Wanting nothing more to do with her own people after her mistreatment at
their hands, Ariel accompanied the Fallen Angels to Earth.

Ariel resurfaced during the Utopia crossover between the X-Men line
and the Dark Avengers. She appears during X-Men: Legacy #226 as an
ally of the X-Men, volunteering her help during the riots to transport
injured mutants back to Graymalkin Industries. During the events of
Second Coming Cyclops assigns Ariel as teleporter for the X-Men's
Alpha team, following the disappearance of Magik during battle. While
traveling with Wolverine and X-23 in search for Hope, their car was shot
by a missile. Wolverine and X-23 survived due to their enhanced healing
factors, but Ariel was believed to have been killed.

During the fallout of Schism, Rogue discovers that Ariel's power had
allowed her to jump from the vehicle before it was destroyed. However,
the destruction of the entry door had left her trapped in an
interdimensional limbo. She was rescued from this limbo by the X-Men
and has been restored to health on Utopia.


Powers and abilities

Like all members of her extraterrestrial race, Ariel can bend space so
that she can create a space warp connecting two points that may
otherwise lie great distances apart. There are no known limits on the
range that Ariel's space warps may cover; she has created warps that
enabled her to travel over interstellar distance from one planet to
another in distant solar system. However, Ariel needs an actual doorway
that can be opened and closed to serve as a focal point for her power.
In addition, there must be another doorway at the receiving end of the
warp. By stepping through the doorway, one journeys through the space
warp that she has created.

In addition, Ariel is the sole mutant member of her race, possessing the
mutant ability to cause others through psionic means to believe what she
says or to do what she tells them, whether they would otherwise
voluntarily wish to do so or not.

