ARKON is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by . He is the warlord and ruler of the
extra-dimensional world of Polemachus.


Publication history

Arkon first appeared in Avengers #75 (April 1970), and was created by
Roy Thomas and John Buscema.


Fictional character biography

Arkon was born of noble lineage on the extra-dimensional world
Polemachus. The people of the Realm of Polemachus developed a culture
that glorifies warfare, and Arkon succeeded in becoming the greatest
warrior of his people. Appointed Imperion (ruler) of the largest country
on Polemachus, Arkon mounted military campaigns against neighboring
countries in an effort to conquer the world. His dreams were forgotten
when Polemachus was faced with a worldwide catastrophe in that the
light-and heat-providing planetary rings were disintegrating. Arkon's
scientists determined that atomic explosions occurring on Earth somehow
were extra-dimensionally translated to rekindle the energy rings for
about a year. Although Polemachus had not developed nuclear weaponry,
the scientists predicted that if they were to atomically annihilate the
Earth, their world's energy-rings would be restored to power.

Toward this goal, Arkon manipulated the hero known as the Scarlet Witch
into reciting a magical spell found in a Polemachian book to enable
Arkon to transport himself to Earth. Attracted to the Scarlet Witch and
intending to marry her, Arkon kidnapped her as well as a group of atomic
scientists. The scientists were forced to construct an atomic device.
Before Arkon could detonate it on Earth, however, Scarlet Witch's super
team, the Avengers battled Arkon. Iron Man and Thor managed to rekindle
Polemachus' energy-rings via a super device devised by Stark, and Arkon
ceased hostilities with Earth.

The Avengers had cause to revisit Arkon's world when their comrade, the
Black Knight, was taken captive by Arkon while searching for the Well at
the Center of Time. Arkon ceased hostilities with the Avengers when he
learned that he was being duped by the Asgardian Amora the Enchantress,
and later reconciled with the Avengers.

Although his world now possessed the capacity for atomic weapons, Arkon
was dissatisfied with the length of time it took to build a nuclear
arsenal. Thus, he devised a plan to pit three extra-dimensional worlds,
one of which was Earth, against one another, in hopes that the energy
from the resultant nuclear conflagration could be absorbed by his world.
His elaborate machinations failed, due to the efforts of the Fantastic
Four.

Arkon was forced to return to Earth yet again when the machine that Iron
Man had once built to rekindle Polemachus' rings failed due to Arkon's
tinkering with it. Arkon traveled to Earth to recruit Thor to recharge
the machine, but since Thor had left the Avengers at that time, he
settled for the mutant X-Man known as Storm, who also had the ability to
summon lightning, forcing her teammates to go after them. After a
monumental struggle, the conflict was settled amicably. Storm through
Cyclops' optic blasts helped re-energize the Energy Ring, and Arkon
returned Storm and her allies to Earth. Another time, the X-Men and
the Fantastic Four helped Arkon drive off an extra-dimensional invasion
of Polemachus by the alien race of Badoon.

Arkon was later prodded via a dream-suggestion to return to Earth
because a Hollywood movie had been made about him. This subliminal
coaxing was from Amora the Enchantress. She had been given the task of
killing Doctor Strange during the "Acts of Vengeance" campaign (where
all the major villains teamed up and tried to see if "swapping" foes
would result in the defeat of their heroic enemies). Arkon fought Wonder
Man to punish him for appearing in the "Arkon" movies, and told him to
warn the studio not to make any more. The Enchantress tricks Arkon
into battling Dr Strange, but with the help of Clea, they are able to
defeat her.

Some time later, Arkon traveled to Earth to employ the Avengers West
Coast and Fantastic Four as pawns in his war with rival otherworldly
monarch Thundra, until he made peace with Thundra after realizing they
shared a strong mutual attraction. Later, with Thundra as his
consort, Arkon sought Avengers' aid in repairing Polemachus' energy ring
and protecting the maiden Astra from becoming a human sacrifice to
Polemachus' religious zealots led by the high priest Anskar.

During the Secret Wars storyline, Arkon finds himself on the
Battleworld domain of Weirdworld. After many failed attempts to find his
kingdom Polemachus, Arkon has had finally arrived at the end of the
Weirdworld and discovered it was a floating island. He was ready to step
off the cliff to meet his fate on the ground below when an uncontrolled
dragon appeared from nowhere. Seeing this as his opportunity to finally
find his kingdom, Arkon stole the beast from the ogres that tried to
control it and rode it through Weirdworld's sky only to be caught by
apes who used a strange fish and a line to fish the dragon out of the
sky to the bottom of the sea. Imprisoned alone in a cell with his
hands bound, Arkon resorts to brute force running headfirst into the
walls to escape his captivity in Apelantis. While it doesn’t result in
his escape, Arkon’s actions attract the attention of a crystalline being
named Warbow. Warbow explains to Arkon that while he has been able to
escape the prison on his own, he is always recaptured by the underwater
apes before he could reach the surface of the lagoon. Warbow offers to
assist Arkon in escaping in the hopes that they both can manage it
together and save his captive prince Crystar where they find his pieces
in a bag. As Arkon fights off the underwater apes, he dreams of the home
he seeks to return to. As he describes the world, he comes to the sad
realization that he is losing his memory of his home. After reaching
a safe place, Warbow gave Arkon his map as he had promised. But to
Arkon's surprise, it had many places he hadn't ever seen in his journey
through Weirdworld. Enraged, Arkon left Warbow behind and continued his
quest for Polemachus. Lost, Arkon ended up in the "Swayin' Saloon" where
Skull the Slayer was waiting for him. While drinking, Skull the Slayer
revealed to Arkon that he was sent by Morgan le Fay to kill him and both
started to fight. In a failed attempt of killing himself as well as his
enemy, Arkon cut the ropes that kept the saloon suspended and they fell
into the swamp below. When Arkon regained consciousness after the fall,
he found himself trapped in vines and surrounded by the Man-Things.
Arkon began to hallucinate about seeing Polemachus upside down when
Skull freed him from the vines by attacking him fiercely. Arkon managed
to get one of his Battle-Bolts and overcame his enemy. Before he could
kill him, he was immobilized by the burning touch of one of the
Man-Things. This time, Arkon hallucinated about his worst
fear....Polemachus burning in front of his eyes. The hallucination ended
with the arrival of the Swamp Queen of the Man-Things, a version of
Jennifer Kale who is behind the rebellion against Morgan le Fay. After a
brief conversation with the two warriors, the Swamp Queen forced them to
face their fears in order to survive it and become her allies against le
Fay. However, only Skull accepted the offer to become her ally. Arkon
fled from the Forest of the Man-Things having remembered the path which
led to Polemachus. Upon reaching the rock that was supposed to be the
entrance to his kingdom, Arkon found himself yet again in front of a
cliff at the end of Weirdworld. Filled with sadness and rage, Arkon
pointed one of his Battle-Bolts towards his own belly ready to kill
himself, unknowing that Polemachus was in fact in Weirdworld, suspended
upside down as the underside of the floating island. At the last
minute, Arkon gave up on killing himself preferring to use his rage to
conquer Weirdworld in order to turn it into his new kingdom instead. He
was confronted by the Witch Queen le Fay and her army of ogres. Having
been hit by a missile launched by the ogres, Arkon fell from Weirdworld
and finally saw his kingdom under it before being saved from certain
death by the Swamp Queen and her Man-Things who were accompanied by an
army composed of the other inhabitants of Weirdworld including Skull the
Slayer, Warbow, an army of Elves, an army of Eyemazons, an army of
Man-Wolves, and the resurrected Crystar. A fierce battle ensued between
the Swamp Queen's forces and le Fay's forces for the fate of Weirdworld.
However, none of them emerged victorious as Battleworld collapsed after
God Emperor Doom was defeated during the Secret War. With Weirdworld now
a part of Earth-616 and located in the Bermuda Triangle, Arkon resumed
his journey to find Polemachus.

As part of the All-New, All-Different  event, Arkon is still
searching for Polemachus and comes across the survivors of the airplane
that crash-landed onto Weirdworld upon going through the Bermuda
Triangle. He saves them and tells them that they need to get away from
the plane wreck.


Powers and abilities

Arkon possesses a variety of superhuman abilities including great
superhuman strength, speed, stamina, agility, reflexes, and durability.
Arkon also possesses an accelerated healing factor enabling him to
rapidly heal damaged tissue should he sustain injury. While all of his
people possess these same physical attributes, Arkon's are much more
developed than the majority of his race.

Arkon is a cunning military strategist. He is an extraordinary
hand-to-hand combatant and swordsman, and is highly skilled in the usage
of his throwing weapons, which were designed by the scientists and
craftsmen of Polemachus.

Arkon wields a collection of three energy weapons shaped like stylized
lightning bolts that he carries in a quiver. Each of these bolts has a
specific function and color. The golden bolts are used to open gateways
to different dimensional planes. The scarlet and black bolts are used as
offensive weapons and generate powerful explosive blasts when they hit
their target. He also carries a shield.

Arkon has been known to ride dinosaur-like reptilian mounts, some of
which walk on two legs and others on four. Other reptilian mounts he
uses have wings enabling them to carry him through the air.


Other versions

JLA/Avengers

Arkon, Thundra, and all of Polemachus were last seen being wiped out by
Krona during the JLA/Avengers crossover miniseries. However, since
this took place in an intercompany crossover story, Arkon, Thundra, and
Polemachus itself were all restored to normal when the miniseries
ended. This is further evidenced by Thundra's subsequent appearances
in the  Universe since the miniseries ended.


In other media

Television

[Arkon as depicted in X-Men: The Animated Series]

-   Arkon appeared in the two-part X-Men episode "Storm Front", and
    was voiced by Paul Haddad. In the series, Arkon, unleashes terrible
    weather conditions over Washington, D.C. to get Storm's attention.
    When she arrives to quell the weather, he begs her to return with
    him to his planet Polemachus to save it from meteorological chaos
    which threatens his people. Storm agrees to come, but both intrigued
    by this dynamic leader and slightly suspicious, she leaves a clue
    for the other X-Men to follow. Once Storm saves the planet she is
    proclaimed savior of Polemachus and Arkon asks her to marry him. She
    leaves him after learning that his ships are bringing thousands of
    slaves from nearby planets and knows that Arkon is a tyrant.
-   Arkon appears in the Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H._ episode
    "The Hunted", voiced by Liam O'Brien. Hulk encounters Arkon on
    Monster Island where Arkon hunts Hulk and the baby Gooms. When Arkon
    does manages to catch Hulk and the baby Gooms, he places them in
    different cages on his ship. It is also shown that Arkon had
    captured the adult Goom so that he can raise the baby Gooms to help
    him hunt Earth's heroes. With help from the Gooms, Hulk crashes
    Arkon's ship. Upon finding that his thunderbolts are missing, Arkon
    becomes the hunted as he is chased away by Monster
    Island's monsters.

Video games

-   Arkon will appear as a playable character in Lego 's
    Avengers.

