ARMOR () is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by . She is a Japanese mutant who enrolled at the
Xavier Institute as a teenager and who retained her powers after the
events of Decimation.


Publication history

Armor first appeared in Astonishing X-Men vol. 3 #4 and was created by
Joss Whedon and John Cassaday.


Fictional character biography

Student at Xavier's

Hisako Ichiki is a young girl whose greatest aspiration is one day to be
an X-Man. While it was originally thought that Hisako was not a member
of any of the X-Men's various training squads, a 2010 handbook entry
reveals that she was a member of Kitty Pryde's Paladins squad.

Along with her friend and fellow student, Wing (whom, after his death,
she later describes as being her best friend), Hisako is attacked in the
halls of the Xavier Institute by the alien villain Ord of the
Breakworld. Hisako and Wing attempt to oppose Ord, but are overpowered.
While both teenagers survive the attack, Wing discovers that he has been
injected with a "cure" for his mutant ability of flight. Despondent, he
commits suicide after some goading from a Danger Room hologram of her.
In the wake of this tragedy, Hisako, her teacher Kitty Pryde, and
several Xavier students find themselves trapped in a sentient and
hostile Danger Room with Wing's reanimated corpse. Danger, as the
intelligence is named by the X-Men, eventually leaves the Institute.

When M-Day hit, she was one of 27 students to retain their powers. She
participated in Emma Frost's Battle Royale which determined who will
train to be an X-Man. Hisako later appeared alongside the New X-Men when
the Acolytes attack the mansion. Her appearance is extremely brief and
with no dialogue. She is recognizable only because she "Armors up"
during the fight.

Member of the X-Men

Hisako finds classmate Blindfold "crying" in the restroom. While
trying to comfort Blindfold, Blindfold tries to convince Hisako that
they are soon "to lose another one," as Wolverine, believing he is a
defenseless child due to the manipulations of Cassandra Nova, barges
into the restroom, followed closely by the feral Beast. Beast attacks
Blindfold, but Hisako uses her powers to fight off Beast with a large
blast of psionic energy from her psi-body armor. Exhausting herself, she
faints. Blindfold tells Hisako that someone is awake in the infirmary;
they find the unconscious bodies of Colossus and Cyclops.

Soon after, both Ord and Danger attack the mansion, where they are
confronted by Hisako and then Wolverine where the young girl holds her
own only to be wounded by Wolverine's claws. Although she only receives
minor injuries, when Cassandra Nova chooses Hisako to be her new host
body. It is unknown if Cassandra was successful in getting Emma Frost to
transfer her consciousness into Hisako, as S.W.O.R.D. beams the team,
Danger, Ord, and Hisako into a spaceship headed for the Breakworld.

The team and Hisako find that S.W.O.R.D. have abducted the X-Men and
Hisako because they need heroes to fight a threat: Breakworld has a
weapon capable of destroying the Earth. Ord sends the ship's coordinates
to Breakworld's ruler, and he sends a fleet to attack the ship. The ship
is heavily damaged and the X-Men are separated. Hisako ends up with
Wolverine. Hisako is given membership to the X-Men and Shadowcat's
uniform.

Later, Wolverine and Armor are captured as Emma and the remaining X-Men
try to free Cyclops. It is then revealed through a flashback that
Leviathan is a fake and that Wolverine and Armor were told to be
captured so the X-Men would have men inside Kruun's palace. Kruun only
captured and brought Cyclops back to life so as to question him about
the fake Leviathan. Cyclops then uses his newly regained powers to knock
out Kruun and free Wolverine and Armor.

Back on earth, Armor attempts to console Wolverine after losing
Shadowcat by forcing him to fight/train with her.

Messiah Complex

During Messiah Complex, some of the New X-Men launch a pre-emptive
strike against the Purifiers. Hisako joins them and while spying on the
Purifers, she is impressed by X-23’s senses. After breaking into the
Washington base and getting into a brief tussle with the Purifers they
are ambushed by the Reavers, who wound Hellion. Pixie manages to
teleport the team out and are spread between Washington and the
Institute.

Hisako is brought back to the mansion by Iceman with the other New
X-Men. When Predator X showed up at the mansion, Hisako teamed up with
Gentle and battled it in the infirmary. Pixie believes X-23 can defeat
the monster and teleports it and the entire team, along with Hisako, to
the battle between the Marauders and the X-Teams taking place on Muir
Island.

Manifest Destiny

Hisako is currently a full member of the X-Men and is working alongside
them in San Francisco. She is currently receiving classes from Wolverine
in combat and classes from Cyclops in tactics. She is thinking of
changing her codename because Wolverine keeps mocking her for her choice
of Armor. She later accompanies the team to a spaceship graveyard
known as Chaparanga where she performs a fastball special with Wolverine
and confronts a mysterious man, dubbed Subject X who they find fixing
and restarting the eponymous "ghost box" in a spaceship. Subject X is
defeated but kills himself rather than surrender information about his
intentions and "the Annex."

The X-Men locate Tian, which is an uncharted area of China that no
surveillance or satellite system can get through, not even the Chinese
government or Cerebra. The X-Men are able to sneak into Tian and
discover the headquarters of a group of mutants from another dimension.
Sadly, they seem to be dying because of the effects of M-Day.

As Armor and Logan go off to search the temple for anyone else, they
come across a man who can fire lasers from his fingers. Armor is shocked
when the laser goes through her armor and hits her in the arm. After the
X-Men take down their foes, they reveal to the X-Men they have a mutual
friend, Forge. After finding Forge on Mt. Wundegore and discovering
he has gone mad, he tries to open the Ghost Box. Thanks to the
assistance of Abigail Brand and Beast, who borrows Hisako's phone, Brand
fires a world-destroying laser at the Ghost Box and the phone,
destroying it as well as much of the area while the X-Men escape.

She is also sharing a room with Pixie and X-23. During an attack by
the Red Queen's Sisterhood, Armor is shown scared and hiding with X-23
when they are attacked by Chimera only to be teleported out by Pixie
before her attack could succeed.

Secret Invasion

Hisako is seen working alongside Cannonball and Colossus when the
Skrulls invade San Francisco.

Utopia

Hisako is seen watching the protests between Humanity Now and Pro-Mutant
Rights protestors. Hisako is then seen during the riots in San Francisco
with Karma, Match, Angel and Bling! trying to keep calm. She is
later made a part of a team by Cyclops to take down the Dark X-Men
and participates in the final fight against Norman Osborn's forces,
teaming up with X-23 and Pixie in taking on Daken.


Powers and abilities

Hisako can create and generate an enormously strong and impenetrable
dark red-colored psionic exoskeleton body armor that grants her
superhuman strength, reflexes, stamina, endurance, agility, dexterity,
and durability. The body armor is depicted as enveloping her completely
and protects her from tremendously strong and powerful attacks and
greatly strengthens and amplifies the concussive force behind her
unusually offensive and highly destructive blows. In some depictions,
her psionic armor grants her enough superhuman strength to lift a Skull
ground tank and punch someone through several walls of a building.

Hisako's armor is strong and durable enough to survive the heat caused
from a long fall through the atmosphere. Likewise, she is able to fully
withstand the impact from falling to the ground from high up in the
atmosphere without any physical or external injury. She can also cause
her armor to release a large amount of solid, concussive energy at once,
but it may be difficult to perform. Her armor is vulnerable to lasers,
which are able to pass through it and harm her. This vulnerability is
explained when she states later that her armor still has to let light
through.

Adamantium is also able to pierce through Hisako's armor, such as
Wolverine's claws, although he is not able to go through it with the
rest of his body. In this case, she only remained uninjured because
the distance between her armor's perimeter and her body was slightly
greater than the length of Wolverine's claws. Her armor was also
breached by The Fury, however this may be due to the Fury's abilities to
counter-act mutant abilities. To some extent, she can shape her armor,
such as her ability to form Wolverine-like claws and make them extend
outward. In instances of extreme duress, Hisako is also able to expand
her armor, greatly strengthening and increasing its size and shape
around her, though her own body remains the same at its center.

Hisako's body armor is initially partially explained as being somehow
composed of something related to her family lineage and ancestors. It is
later described as being composed of memory. This is stated in an issue
of Wolverine: Origins, when Hisako's armor is able to withstand blows
from the Muramasa blade, which can cut through any material, since
memory is "the only material that the blade cannot cut through."
Similarly, in Astonishing X-Men, vol. 3 #39, Armor's armor expands and
grows to the size of a building due to the fact she feels strongly about
not attending her recently deceased mother and brother's wake.

Hisako has also received combat training from Wolverine and classes in
tactics from Cyclops.


Other versions

Leader of the X-Men

In Runaways, a time-displaced future version of Gertrude Yorkes
mentioned a future team of X-Men led by Hisako. Like Gertrude's
Avengers, they were decimated by the villainous incarnation of Victor
Mancha, known as "Victorious." Hisako and Gert are stated to be the last
of the X-Men and Avengers, respectively and Hisako mentions that she
does not have enough energy to generate her armor in a fight against
Victorious.

Ghost Boxes

In a variation of the Ghost Boxes storyline, two alternate versions of
Hisako have been depicted. The first is a different ending to
Astonishing X-Men, vol. 3 #26. Cyclops and Wolverine are taken out by
the Annex. The Annex then opens a Ghost Box and a Sentinel merged
Magneto comes through and kills Emma Frost and Storm leaving Hisako the
only surviving member of the Astonishing X-Men.

In another alternate future, set 5 years after the Annex destroy the
world, Hisako, Beast, who now has a childlike mentality, and Wolverine,
who uses a wheelchair, are the last people on Earth. Kitty Pryde
apparently returns to Earth and organizes an evacuation. After traveling
to the evacuation point and finding out it was really a trap, Hisako
breaks Beast's neck and burns Wolverine until his healing factor cancels
out and dies leaving her as the last of the X-Men and possibly the last
person on Earth.

Ultimate 

The Ultimate version of Hisako first appears as a young Japanese child
being held captive in one of William Stryker's Mutant internment camps.
After being rescued by Iceman and Husk, she joins their Mutant
resistance movement. In this continuity, Hisako's energy armor takes the
form of a large, glowing dragon.


In other media

Television

-   Armor appears in  Anime: X-Men voiced by Yukari Tamura
    in the Japanese version and by Stephanie Sheh in the English dub. In
    the series, Hisako is kidnapped by the U-Men. She is later rescued
    by the X-Men alongside Emma Frost (who had been hired by Hisako's
    parents to help control Armor's powers). She then joins the X-Men in
    order to investigate a case of secondary mutations occurring
    in Tohoku. In the past, it was revealed that Hisako went to Yui
    Sasaki's academy with Takeo. An incident with Takeo's immensely
    strong and powerful mutant abilities had accidentally resulted in a
    large fire that burned the nearby neighborhood and had included a
    small burn on Hisako's left hand.

