BARNELL BOHUSK, currently known as BLACKWING, formerly known as BEAK, is
a fictional character, a superhero appearing in American comic books
published by . The character is usually depicted as being
associated with the X-Men and its spinoff the Exiles. Beak first
appeared in New X-Men #117 and was created by Grant Morrison and Ethan
Van Sciver.


Fictional character biography

[Beak's original appearance] Born in Rotterdam, Netherlands, Beak
started developing his powers at puberty. His body changed into that of
a humanoid-bird form, with a beaked face, bulbous eyes, wing-like arms
that give him the ability to fly (albeit clumsily), talons on his hands
and feet, and double-jointed knees. He also possesses heightened
agility, and he may possess heightened senses and a lighter skeletal
structure like the avian X-Man formerly known as the Angel. Feeling
disgusted and ashamed because of his appearance, Beak ran away from home
and went into hiding. He tells Beast that his nickname originated
from other teenagers in Rotterdam, who would find him hiding behind beer
barrels.

Xavier Institute For Higher Learning

After the Xavier Institute For Higher Learning publicly revealed that
the school was a training ground and sanctuary for mutants, Beak
traveled to the United States and enrolled there. There, Beast helped
him with his powers. Tragically, the fledgling relationship between
Beast and Beak never got a chance to fully develop because of the evil
tamperings of Cassandra Nova. While in the body of Professor X,
Cassandra Nova took control over the Beak's mind, leaving him just
enough sentient thought to realize what he was doing but not have any
control over his actions. She then ordered him to beat Beast almost to
death with his prize titanium baseball bat, which he intended to give as
a gift to Beast as a token of gratitude. At the institute Beak fell in
love with another classmate, Angel Salvadore (not to be confused with
Angel). Though Angel originally started the relationship on a bet, she
later fell in love with him too. They slept together, and Angel became
pregnant. Fearing that the X-Men would kick them out, and what their
babies would be like (due to their drastically different mutant
physiologies; Angel's mutation is house fly-related) they didn't know
what to do. Luckily, the X-Men weren't angry with them and the babies
turned out fine. Angel had taken over Wolverine's old shack and laid six
eggs which hatched healthy babies with wings. Angel and Beak were given
a small house next to the mansion to raise their family. Beak was put
into the 'Special Class', taught by the new X-Man Xorn. At one point
Xorn leads his class in an overnight camping trip. An attack by the
U-Men happen, who wish to take mutant organs. Separated from their
teacher, the students look to Beak for leadership, a role he reluctantly
accepts.

Once again, Beak's trust in those around him would be shaken when Xorn
reveals himself to be Magneto (originally intended to be Magneto and
later retconned by . It has been subsequently written into the
storylines that this may have been caused by the effective Xorn). He had
Beak join his Brotherhood of Mutants along with the rest of the Special
Class. The children also came with him. Beak had looked up to Xorn and
was happy at first, but when the "Xorneto" started marching humans into
crematoriums, Beak rebelled and nearly lost his life as a result.
Xorneto launched him high into the air in a car. Beak leaped out, tried
to fly and plunged into the street below, barely surviving. He later
joined a resistance group of X-Students led by Cyclops. Among the
members of the group were the Stepford Cuckoos and Dust. The Cuckoos
scan Beak's mind, learning he had been influenced by one of the
telepaths under Magneto's control and had not been fully responsible for
his actions in the takeover of New York. Later, he was the first to
strike in the X-Men's last-ditch assault on the Brotherhood. He was able
to enter because no one had thought to take his key before trying to
kill him. He attacked Magneto with the Titanium baseball bat and was
taken out of action early on. His seemingly pointless and 'laughable'
stand was a distraction for the attack launched by Fantomex.

Exiles

After helping Cyclops depose Magneto, Beak became "unhinged" from time
and was forced to join the reality hopping group known as the Exiles.
This has caused him to be separated from Angel, who now thinks he left
her. The person who gives the Exiles their missions, the Timebroker,
says Beak is destined in the future to save the lives of everyone he
knows. Beak saved the lives of everyone in the  multiverse by
coming up with the strategy to beat the seemingly invincible evil
version of Hyperion. He was then sent home, but returned during the
House of M and was present when the second change wave hit. As a
result of the effects of the House of M event, Beak, his wife Angel and
their children (except for Tito, which is also the name of Beak's future
grandson) have lost their powers and thus their "hideous" appearance,
and are now finally able to live happily.

New Warriors

[Beak in his depowered form. Art by Ramon
Bachs.|right|thumb|150px]Barnell (under the alias Barry) has been, for
months, visiting a restaurant where Sofia Mantega works, under the
pretense that he was attracted to her and wished to take her on a date.
This was revealed to be a test, in regards to both Sofia's determination
and trust toward the recently active, and anti-registration, New
Warriors. Barnell reveals on their "date" that he had been working for
these New Warriors, and that he had no attraction to her other than the
friendship they had maintained back when she knew him as Beak. After
revealing who he is and who he is working for, he then leads her to the
New Warrior's Headquarters, where his boss is revealed to be someone
dressed as Night Thrasher. Barnell has joined the New Warriors under
the guise of Blackwing. Blackwing is shown to have the power of flight
and energy blasts, which are derived from a power suit. Angel is also
a member of the group under the name Tempest. Both stay with the team
until it disbands.


Powers and abilities

Currently, Beak wears an advanced body suit that gives him the ability
to fly, superhuman strength, and energy blasts, as well as giving him
enhanced protection.

Beak's abilities had probably not fully developed when he lost his
mutant powers. However, it is known that he had hollow bones, enhanced
agility, and that his entire body was covered in feathers. He had
demonstrated a limited ability to glide, but had not mastered controlled
flight. His endurance appeared to be enhanced as he has fallen several
stories without sustaining any significant damage. A fall from such a
height would have severely injured or killed an ordinary human. He also
had the ability to use his beak as a weapon and peck his opponents.


Other versions

"Here Comes Tomorrow"

Beak's grandson, TITO BOHUSK JR, the child of his son Tito Bohusk, was
shown as a member of the X-Men in the "Here Comes Tomorrow" future
timeline. He was shown to carry his grandfather's titanium bat, and to
have fully developed his grandfather's mutation, possessing an actual
beak, claws, and feathers that cover all of his body—as well as
flight-capable wings that folded along his arms. He saw his grandfather
as an inspiration, and upon dying said he believed that the original
Beak would be laughing down at him. As a comfort, Wolverine stated that
he stood three feet taller than his grandfather.

Created at the end of Grant Morrison's run on the New X-Men line, Tito
was a mutant with an eagle-like head, fully feathered chest and wings
and carrying his grandfather's titanium bat. Tito was shown as a member
of the X-Men in the "Here Comes Tomorrow" future timeline. He died in
Wolverine's arms during a battle with the Beast (who was taken over by
Sublime), stating he would never be a great hero like his grandfather.
His father Tito Sr. is the only member of the Bohusk clan to retain his
mutant X-gene following M-Day, leaving the possibility for a mutant Tito
Jr. to be born eventually. Tito Sr. is the son of the ex-mutants Beak
(Barnell Bohusk) and Angel Salvadore who met at the Xavier Institute
when both still had their powers. He has five siblings, only two of whom
have names that are known to the reader (Kara and Axel), and all of
whom, except Tito, lost their mutant powers to the Decimation along with
their parents.

 Zombies 3

A zombified version of Beak appears in issue 2 of  Zombies 3,
assaulting, Machine Man and Jocasta as soon as they arrive on Earth-2149
along with other infected wing-laden characters: Angel, Falcon and
Vulture.

