BATWING (JAMES "JIMMY" SANTINI) is a fictional character appearing in
American comic books published by .


Publication history

His first appearance was in Untold Tales of Spider-Man #2 (October
1995), and he was created by Kurt Busiek and Pat Olliffe.

Batwing appeared as a supporting character in Avengers Academy
beginning with issue #20 (Dec 2011), making occasional appearances
throughout the series.


Fictional character biography

Young Jimmy Santini was with his father in an investigation of illegal
toxic waste dumping in Carlsbad Caverns National Park where his father
was either shot in the back by the polluters or fell to his death in the
deep caverns (the full details were murky in Jimmy's diary). Jimmy was
lost in the caverns and drank water that "tasted like metal." He was
eventually rescued and returned to his mother. Soon the chemicals began
to take effect and Jimmy sprouted wings. His mother proclaimed him a
demon, causing Jimmy to run away. He continued to mutate into a bat-like
creature and ended up stealing food to survive. He arrived in New York
City and made his home under an old pier. Jimmy began stealing food from
people dining on rooftops scaring people in the process. Thus, the
people began to dub him Batwing. When New York City Councilman Randolph
Cherryh was once dining with his girlfriend, Batwing appeared and stole
some of his apples which humiliated Randolph. Randolph Cherryh placed a
bounty on him which Peter Parker (alias Spider-Man) decided to take part
on during his financial problems. Randolph arranged for a party as part
of a trap. When Batwing came, the police sprang and began shooting only
for Spider-Man to web up the guns and pursue Batwing. Batwing battled
with Spider-Man before fleeing back to where he lived under the pier.
When Spider-Man followed Batwing to the pier, he discovered that Batwing
was just a scared kid who was stealing food to survive. Spider-Man read
some of his history before Jimmy ran off right into the Councilman who
secretly followed in his helicopter. Randolph did not care if Batwing
was just a youngster, and he was about to kill the boy when Spider-Man
webbed down his men. Batwing fled despite Spider-Man's offer to get Reed
Richards or Hank Pym to help cure him. Randolph vowed to ruin
Spider-Man's life before having his mouth webbed and himself being
shoved into a garbage can.

Spider-Man continued to bring food to Jimmy who still fears people like
Randolph Cherryh.

Spider-Man later asked Dr. Curt Connors (the Lizard) to use his
expertise to help cure Jimmy. When an accident causes Connors to become
the Lizard again, Batwing helps Spider-Man track him down and cure
Connors. Connors and Jimmy leave New York for someplace quiet where
Jimmy can be cured.

When Connors' cure fails, Batwing returns to New York and battles
Spider-Man again. With his father dead and his mother rejecting him,
Jimmy hopes for death. Spider-Man locates Jimmy's mother and tells her
that Jimmy is still her son, regardless of his condition, and that she
was wrong to reject him. Just as Batwing is about to be shot by the New
York Police Department, Jimmy's mother intervenes and tells her son that
she still loves him. Upon hearing this and knowing that he is loved,
Jimmy reverts to his human form, and the police retreat. Jimmy goes home
with his mother, finally receiving the love that he desperately
needs.

After the superhero Civil War, Batwing enters the Fifty State
Initiative as one of the recruits at Camp Hammond along with Gorilla
Girl, Prodigy, Butterball and others. He joins them so that they can
help cure him of his bat form.

During the Secret Invasion storyline, Batwing is among the Initiative
cadets seen fighting the Skrulls.

When Delroy Garrett left the Initiative after the death of Crusader,
Batwing wasn't pleased with Delroy killing him. Batwing was assigned
to the Shadow Initiative. While the rest of the Initiative is busy
with the Siege of Asgard, Penance evades the guards and convinces
Batwing, Bengal, and Butterball into helping the Avengers Resistance.
Batwing and Butterball later organize a new superteam for North
Carolina, based in Morganton, to replace the incarcerated U-Foes.

Batwing later attended prom night at the Avengers Academy with the Young
Allies and those that were in the Initiative. Batwing is among
the other young superheroes seen at the New Campus for the Avengers
Academy.

During the Fear Itself storyline, Batwing appears at a meeting held by
Prodigy regarding magical hammers that have crashed into the earth. He
aids the team in rescuing survivors and appears during the battle
against Thor Girl, who had regained her designate powers.

Batwing is part of the new class of students when the Avengers Academy
moves to the former headquarters of the West Coast Avengers.


Powers and abilities

Batwing possesses bat-like wings which extend from his index fingers to
his ankles, allowing him to fly. He also possesses superhuman speed,
night vision, echolocation, and enhanced hearing. He had sharp claws and
fangs.

