BAYMAX is a fictional character, a superhero appearing in American comic
books published by . Created by Steven T. Seagle and Duncan
Rouleau, Baymax first appeared in Sunfire & Big Hero 6 #1 (September
1998). Baymax begins his existence as Hiro Takachiho's science project.
Originally designed to be a hydro-powered robotic synthformer programmed
to serve as Hiro's personal bodyguard, butler, and chauffeur, Baymax
becomes Hiro's best friend and father figure when the young inventor
programs his recently deceased father's brain engrams into Baymax's
artificial intelligence. When the Giri recruits Hiro into the fledgling
super-team Big Hero 6, Baymax also joins the team, where his phenomenal
strength, and amazing surveillance and data analysis capabilities have
proven useful.

Baymax is an artificial synthformer capable of synthtransing his body
into various forms: a large humanoid male, "Battle-Dragon" and
"Action-Mecha". The first serves as his default form, designed to be
less conspicuous in public while attending to Hiro's daily needs. His
other forms, significantly more powerful and imposing, are primarily
used during undercover missions and other hostile operations. In all
forms, Baymax has internal scanners and sensors able to detect and
evaluate threats posed by nearby lifeforms. He is also programmed with
fighting techniques from forms of combat including karate, tae kwon do,
Western boxing and Wing Chun.

Baymax appears in the 2014 Disney animated film Big Hero 6, voiced by
Scott Adsit, and in the videogame Disney Infinity:  Super
Heroes. He is depicted as an inflatable robot built by Tadashi, the
older brother of the protagonist Hiro Hamada, to serve as a healthcare
companion.


Publication history

Created by Steven T. Seagle and Duncan Rouleau in their spare time while
working on another project, Baymax was first intended to appear with the
rest of Big Hero 6 in Alpha Flight #17 (December 1998). However, the
team first appeared in their own self-titled three-issue miniseries by
writer Scott Lobdell and artist Gus Vasquez, which due to scheduling
issues, was published before Alpha Flight #17. The character
appeared with the team in a subsequent five-issue miniseries which was
launched by  in September 2008.


Fictional character biography

Monster Baymax began his existence as a science project created by Hiro.
He was originally designed to be a hydro-powered robotic synthformer
programmed to serve as Hiro's personal bodyguard, butler, and chauffeur.
However, prior to the project's completion, Hiro's father died and the
young inventor programmed Baymax's artificial intelligence using the
brain engrams of his recently departed father. With the thoughts and
emotions of Hiro's father, Baymax became much more than a robotic
bodyguard. He also functions as Hiro's best friend and father figure,
and is by his side nearly every hour of every day. Baymax also feels a
deep attachment to Hiro's mother; however, Hiro and Baymax decided it
was not in her best interest to inform her that her departed husband's
memories were used as the basis for Baymax's artificial intelligence, at
least for the time being.

Baymax is programmed to serve and protect Hiro and therefore unable to
allow his creator to be placed in possibly dangerous situations. When
the Giri attempted to recruit Hiro into the fledgling super-team known
as Big Hero 6, Baymax was also on their list of potential operatives.
Baymax opposed the idea of Hiro being placed in harm's way but
acquiesced to joining the team after the Everwraith, the astral
embodiment of those killed in the 1945 nuclear attacks on Hiroshima and
Nagasaki, abducted Hiro's mother. Baymax continues to serve alongside
Hiro on Big Hero 6, where his phenomenal strength, and amazing
surveillance and data analysis capabilities have proven very useful.


Powers and abilities

Baymax is an artificial synthformer capable of synthtransing his body
into various forms. His default form is a large humanoid male designed
to be less conspicuous in public while attending to Hiro's daily needs.
His other forms "Battle-Dragon" and "Action-Mecha", are significantly
more powerful and imposing than his default humanoid form, and are
primarily used during undercover missions and other hostile operations.
When Baymax sustains physical injuries beyond his damage threshold, he
automatically reverts to his humanoid form and becomes temporarily
depowered.

In all forms, Baymax is equipped with internal scanners and sensors able
to detect and evaluate the threat posed by lifeforms in the immediate
vicinity. He can also deploy remote monitors to record events from afar.
His feet are equipped with jet engines capable of generating a thrust
sufficient to propel him at speeds up to Mach 4. He can send, receive,
and intercept radio transmissions, and monitors all networks maintained
by the Japanese Ministry of Defense. Baymax is also directly linked to
Hiro's personal Core Cyber-Network (CCN). As a result, when Baymax is
not in Hiro's vicinity, he can be immediately summoned via a
communication device mounted on Hiro's wrist. Baymax is also connected
to Hiro's cybernetic glasses, so that everything that Hiro sees and
hears while wearing the glasses is stored in Baymax's databanks for
later reference and analysis.

Baymax is programmed with fighting techniques from several forms of
combat, including karate, tae kwon do, Western boxing, and Wing Chun. He
possesses a durable, polymantium endo/exoskeleton resistant to most
forms of small ballistics. Baymax uses water as his primary source of
power for locomotion. His artificial intelligence system is
memory-card-based and contains thoughts and emotions of Hiro's departed
father, industrialist Tomeo Takachiho.


In other media

Film

In Big Hero 6, Baymax is voiced by Scott Adsit. In the film, he
is depicted as an inflatable robot built by Hiro Hamada's older brother
Tadashi to serve as a healthcare provider companion. Co-director Don
Hall said "Baymax views the world from one perspective—he just wants to
help people, he sees Hiro as his patient." Producer Roy Conli said "The
fact that his character is a robot limits how you can emote, but Scott
was hilarious. He took those boundaries and was able to shape the
language in a way that makes you feel Baymax’s emotion and sense of
humor. Scott was able to relay just how much Baymax cares."
The film was released under the title Baymax in Japan and Germany.

Video games

The Disney version of Baymax, in his armored form, appears in Disney
Infinity:  Super Heroes and Disney Infinity 3.0. That version
will also appear in Kingdom Hearts III. According to Square Enix
and the film's producer Roy Conli, the story of Big Hero 6's world is
set as an alternate sequel to the events of the film. Baymax's
former body, which was left behind inside the portal from the previous
movie event is being used by an antagonist of the game. The original
Baymax is revived as a corrupted heartless and its color scheme is black
as opposed to red and purple with jagged wings and horned spikes on its
shoulder plates and helmet. In addition, the original Baymax's right arm
has been substituted for Microbots.

