    For the member of the Exemplars, see Bedlam (Exemplar)._

BEDLAM (JESSE AARONSON) is a fictional character, a mutant superhero
appearing in American comic books published by . He
originally possessed the mutant ability to create and project a bio-EM
field. This has the effect of temporarily disabling any similarly
powered technology in the vicinity. He can also utilize his power to
scan the environment for other pre-existing energy fields. After the
High Evolutionary reset the mutant genome in every mutant on the planet,
Jesse's abilities expanded to be able to affect the human brain's neural
chemistry, thus allowing him to project the illusion of pain and
confusion into other people.

Another, unrelated Bedlam was an enemy of Alpha Flight.


Fictional character biography

JESSE AARONSON was created based on a character that had appeared in the
Age of Apocalypse crossover, but did not have an Earth-616 counterpart
at the time. He was orphaned at the age of 5 after his parents were
killed in a car crash. After that, he and his brother Christopher were
put into foster care separately. Jesse went through multiple foster
homes due to his emotional instability and was forced to go through many
therapists before being placed in a psychiatric hospital at 13. He was
exploited during that time by one of the doctors, who wanted to use
Jesse's burgeoning powers for a book and performed experiments on him,
and tried to convince Jesse that his brother was simply a figment of his
imagination. Jesse was eventually rescued by Lucas Whyndam and ended up
in the hands of the Professor Charles Xavier's Mutant Underground
Support Engine (M.U.S.E.), a group based out of Montana with the goal of
rescuing mutants and training them as field agents. When he reached the
age of 19, Jesse decided to leave M.U.S.E. in order to track down his
brother once and for all. He enlisted the help of the mutant spy and
former X-Force member, Domino. He offered her information regarding the
whereabouts of the Prime Sentinel unit named Ekaterina Gryaznova in
exchange for Domino's help. Gryaznova, now calling herself Gryphon, had
implanted a device in Domino's body several months ago, which severely
diminished her mutant powers. Upon entering the base, Domino was
captured but Bedlam managed to escape. Using his resources from
M.U.S.E., he managed to track down X-Force in San Francisco and break
into their headquarters, in order to ask them for help. The team managed
to free Domino and apparently kill Gryphon. In the process, Bedlam used
his power to short circuit Domino's implant.

Keeping up her end of the bargain, Domino managed to find information
regarding his family. His parents were actually information analysts at
the National Security Department. They paid a visit to his parents'
former supervisor, Dabney Saunders, who was residing in a retirement
home, babbling incoherent sentences. Domino, however, discovered the
orderly in charge of Saunders informing an unidentified man about their
visit. Both Bedlam and Domino broke into the mysterious man's home using
Jesse's power and were subsequently attacked by Magma and Paradigm.
Bedlam used his powers to disrupt Paradigm's electronics, knocking out
Magma in the process. However, they were subdued by none other than
Jesse's brother, Christopher. Christopher, calling himself King Bedlam,
has the power to disrupt the higher functions of the brain. Chris was
tagged as a mutant at the age of six by the N.S.D. and was taken into a
research center after their parents' death. At age 13 he fled,
destroying Saunders mind in the process. He had now founded a new team
of Hellions and offered an invitation of membership to Jesse, who gladly
accepted. The group's true intentions, however, were to reanimate the
Armageddon Man in order to blackmail the U.S. government into paying one
billion dollars. X-Force managed to subdue the Armageddon Man, but the
New Hellions managed to escape. Jesse was invited back to join X-Force,
as he had discovered that it was his brother responsible for their
parents' death.

After several missions with the team, Jesse learned martial arts through
a "Delphi box" given to him by Peter Wisdom. The team also learned of
Bedlam's unique condition, which forced him to take medication in order
to keep his own power from scrambling his brain. After the High
Evolutionary removed every mutants' power and subsequently restored it,
the team took on a new direction. Peter Wisdom was now X-Force's leader,
while Domino and Moonstar had quit. Wisdom taught them how to use their
new abilities. In Jesse's case, he could generate an electromagnetic
pulse, disrupt machinery within a certain distance without having to be
in physical contact with the target, and could also disrupt neural
responses from a distance just like his brother. He remained with the
team until their apparent deaths, where he used his power to destroy
an underground alien colony.

After a new group of "pop star" mutants began calling themselves
X-Force, the original team crashed their press conference. The only
missing member was Jesse. Months later when a group called the Church of
Humanity crucified some mutants on the lawn on the mansion, Jesse was
found among them. Archangel used his healing blood to revive Magma and
Jubilee, but, apparently, Jesse, among several others didn't have the
same luck; or so we thought.

Jesse would appear much later during the mutant riots all across the
globe during Norman Osborne's Proposition X agenda; which would require
all mutants to register under the government. Still having retained his
mutation after the events of M-Day, Jesse along with Avalanche and Erg,
led one of the marches which was promptly put to rest by the Dark
Avenger, Ares. It is unknown if he moved to the X-men location on Utopia
island.


Powers and abilities

Through a "Delphi box" Jesse had the memories of a karate black belt,
and thus could perform with those skills. His continued to further his
hand to hand training with both Domino and Pete Wisdom.

His mutant ability allowed him to sense and perceive energy signatures
and generate a bio-EM field that wreaked havoc with electrical and
certain mechanical systems, and could affect the neural chemical
responses of a living brain to induce states such as pain, sleep, or
confusion. At first strictly touch based aside from sensing energy
fields and tracking others by their biological EM signature, the
restarting of every mutant's powers by the High Evolutionary later
enabled him to generate electromagnetic pulses that cover whole city
blocks and also disrupt neural responses from a far not unlike his
brother could.

As part of his training with the Mutant Underground, Jesse was adapt in
covert ops and intelligence gathering such as computer hacking.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

Although his technical debut, Jesse appears alongside his brother in the
Age of Apocalypse. In this reality, he worked for Sinister in his pens,
along with his brother, who is called Terrence. He eventually turned on
Havok, in order to help Cyclops and Jean Grey to escape the pens.

