BENGAL (DUC NO TRANH) is a fictional character appearing in American
comic books published by .


Publication history

The character first appeared in Daredevil #258 and was created by
Fabian Nicieza and artist Ron Lim.


Fictional character biography

Duc No Tranh was a boy growing up in a Vietnamese village during the
Vietnam War. During the war, American soldiers, including Red Wolf,
Willie Lincoln, and the future Reverend Michael Janes, massacre his
village and parents. The boy tries to climb aboard the Americans'
helicopter, but was kicked off by Private Janes, despite the pleas of
other soldiers on board.

Years later, the boy became the costumed Bengal and travels to America
for revenge on the soldiers involved in the destruction of his village.
Willie Lincoln seeks Daredevil's protection. The costumed hero defeats
Bengal.

Bengal later attacks Father Michael Janes. He soon clashes with
Silhouette and the other New Warriors over the fate of Janes. Bengal
also fights Night Thrasher for the first time. His origin is
recounted, and his battle with Night Thrasher is ended by the
Punisher. Bengal befriends the New Warriors, and Bengal and Janes make
peace with each other.

Despite this, Bengal still feels the need to avenge atrocities stemming
from the Vietnam War. He comes to believe that Gai No Don, an
acquaintance of Night Thrasher, was in reality, Li Pan, a Vietnamese
general responsible for thousands of innocent deaths. Bengal battles
security officers until he reaches Gai. He is confronted by Night
Thrasher and Silhouette, whom Gai has hired. He is told Gai is not Li
Pan. Bengal leaps out a window and escapes. Bengal later attacks the
Poison Memories gang, a long time New Warriors enemy. He believes they
have information on Li Pan. Again, Night Thrasher fights him. He is
temporarily subdued and urged to move on.

Civil War/The Initiative

The Bengal has been identified as one of the 142 registered superheroes
who have registered and being trained as part of the Initiative.
He is seen being bussed into Camp Hammond, the super-human training
facility built on the remains of Stamford. One of the many other
passengers on the bus is Rage, one of the surviving New Warriors. Other
passengers include Thor Girl, Komodo, Slapstick and Cloud 9.

As part of his training, he battles the Thing alongside many others of
his class, with little success.

Bengal is the leader of the Initiative's black-ops team created by Henry
Peter Gyrich. Soon after, the Hulk returns from deep space with an
army and battles many of Earth's heroes. Some of the Camp Hammond
recruits are captured and kept imprisoned in Madison Square Garden.
Bengal, Constrictor, Mutant Zero and other operatives free the Hammond
prisoners.

When the Shadow Initiative was fighting K.I.A., Bengal's friend
Constrictor was badly wounded and Bengal ran away with the body, with a
last hope to save his friend.

During the Secret Invasion storyline, Bengal discovers that the
Skrulls have taken over Camp Hammond. At first, he makes sure that
children and staff at the Camp Hammond daycare are placed safely into a
bomb shelter. He then summons the rest of the Shadow Initiative to deal
with them. They find and recruit Ant-Man and decide to assassinate Queen
Veranke, but the attempt fails and they are taken captive. They are
freed after the invasion force is destroyed.

During the Siege storyline, Penance evades the guards and convinces
Batwing, Bengal, and Butterball to help the Avengers Resistance. As
Osborn's regime has fallen, Bengal moves with his family in Brooklyn
where he opens a martial arts gym. He refuses all requests for
interviews.


Powers, abilities, and equipment

Bengal is a martial arts master and an exceptional athlete. He is also
an excellent acrobat, and a skilled archer and tracker. He typically
fights with bow and arrows, or shuriken. His favorite weapons are paired
sai-like weapons with blades that collapse or expand at the press of a
button. He has an unusually well defined sense of smell and can track
people by scent.


In other media

Video games

-   Bengal appears in Lego 's Avengers.

