BISHOP (full name LUCAS BISHOP) is a fictional superhero appearing in
American comic books published by , particularly titles
associated with the X-Men.

Bishop first appears as a member of Xavier's Security Enforcers
(initially called the Xavier School Enforcers), a mutant police force
from a dystopian future of the  Universe. He traveled to the 20th
century and joined the X-Men, a team he knew only as legends. A brash
antihero, he had difficulty adjusting to the norms of the time period.
In the mid-2000s, Bishop was instead portrayed as one of the X-Men's
main antagonists.

Bishop made frequent appearances in the X-Men animated series of the
1990s. Bishop is portrayed by Omar Sy in the 2014 film X-Men: Days of
Future Past.


Publication history

Created by Whilce Portacio and Jim Lee, the character first appeared in
Uncanny X-Men #282 (November 1991).

Bishop had four limited series including the self-titled Bishop
series, where he tracked and fought Mountjoy, XSE, which showcased his
past (future), and its sequel - Bishop: Xavier's Security Enforcers.
He also teamed up with Gambit to oppose Stryfe in Gambit and Bishop:
Sons of the Atom. He also starred in the series Bishop: The Last
X-Man (1999–2001), in which he was trapped in another alternate
timeline. He appeared regularly in District X (2004–2005), a police
procedural set in a mutant ghetto in New York City. He was cast as a
police officer in New York City’s "mutant town," but the series was
canceled after 14 issues. He also starred in the House of M tie-in,
Mutopia.

Writer Sam Humphries revealed in an interview that Bishop would be back
in our timeline and would be one of the first enemies of the new
incarnation of Uncanny X-Force.


Fictional character biography

Early life

Born about 80 years in the future of the  Universe, Bishop was the
son of Aboriginal mutant refugees who fled to America from Australia a
day before Australia was devastated in a nuclear attack. He was
raised in a mutant concentration camp in the aftermath of the Summers
Rebellion, an uprising in which mutants and humans joined forces to
destroy the Sentinels. Bishop has a distinctive M brand over his right
eye, used to identify mutants in his era. After his parents were killed,
Bishop was taken in by a man named LeBeau, also called Witness, who was
reportedly the last man to see the legendary X-Men alive. According to
LeBeau (in XSE #4), Bishop's adoptive grandmother took Bishop away
from him. Bishop and his younger sister, Shard, were then subsequently
raised by his grandmother within the same mutant concentration camp in
Brooklyn.

Bishop's grandmother taught him many legends of the X-Men, who were old
allies of hers. Depowered by unknown means, she had entered the camps in
secret to raise her granhildren. Upon her deathbed, she made Bishop
swear to protect Shard. After the Rebellion, the mutants were
"emancipated" and sent out of the camps to fend for themselves. Bishop
and Shard, who were only children, were left alone. They lived on the
streets, stealing in order to survive until coming under the care of a
family friend, a war veteran named Hancock. Slightly blind, Hancock
nevertheless took on the task of raising the two.

One day, Bishop encountered an anti-human group of mutants called the
Exhumes, who took Shard hostage just before the XSE arrived. Until that
time Bishop had admired the Exhumes, attributing to them his proud,
idealized notion of the legendary X-Men. It wasn't until the XSE
defeated the Exhume and saved his sister, that Bishop knew he wanted to
join the XSE, and when at the age of fifteen Hancock was murdered by
criminals who were promptly arrested by the XSE he and Shard enlisted in
their ranks. Shard soon surpassed Bishop to become the youngest XSE
officer.

During a training class, Bishop's instructors and some of his fellow
students were attacked and killed. Bishop rallied the survivors and led
the struggle against the assailants until reinforcements arrived. Bishop
gradually climbs the ranks of the XSE until finally becoming their
commander.

While on a mission to wipe out a nest of Emplates, mutant vampires that
feed on bone marrow, Shard was critically injured. Bishop went to
Witness for help. Witness, then imprisoned at the New York Stark
Fujikawa building, agreed to transfer Shard's essence into a holographic
matrix if Bishop would work for him for one year. Bishop agreed, leaving
the XSE for a time. The details of Bishop's work during this period are
unknown; Bishop appears reticent on the subject, later refusing to tell
Shard of his actions.

Immediately upon his re-instalment as a commander in the XSE, Bishop and
his XSE group the "Omega Squad" captured Trevor Fitzroy, a murderous
ex-XSE trainee in the ruins of the Xavier Institute War Room. While
there, Bishop discovered a damaged recording of Jean Grey, in which she
spoke of a traitor destroying the X-Men from inside. Haunted by his
discovery, Bishop confronts Witness for details, but receives only a
vague, ambiguous response, leaving Bishop to suspect his former master
of being more than simply a witness to the downfall of the X-Men.

Joining the X-Men

Fitzroy escaped from prison and used a large amount of mutant life-force
to open a time portal and break out 93 mutant criminal "Lifers" in the
process. Bishop found himself in the past, in the time of his heroes,
the X-Men. Bishop and the Omega Squad eventually "sanctioned" the
Lifers, but did not get Fitzroy. Bishop encountered the X-Men for the
first time, but did not believe that they were really the X-Men. He then
battled them but later allied with the X-Men in trying to stop Fitzroy.
Malcolm and Randall, the two members of his Omega Squad, died in the
process. Professor Charles Xavier offered him a place in the X-Men,
and he was placed under Storm's tutelage. He fought and defeated
Styglut. When he met Gambit, Bishop recognized him as possibly a
younger version of the Witness and fought him.

[X-Men (vol. 2) #52 (May 1996). Cover art by Andy Kubert and Cam
Smith.]

He soon met Mystique for the first time, and alongside the X-Men he
battled the Morlocks and the Death Sponsors.

Bishop assigned himself the role of Xavier's personal bodyguard, which
he failed at when Stryfe, the evil double of Cable, critically wounded
Xavier. Initially, the X-Men believed that Cable was the would-be
assassin, so Wolverine and Bishop tracked down Cable, but then travelled
to Cable's "Graymalkin" space station, and then joined with them in
finding Stryfe. Citing his failure to protect Professor X, Bishop
offered to resign from the X-Men. His resignation was rejected by
Xavier, and then alongside the X-Men he battled the Acolytes.

Age of Apocalypse

When Professor Xavier's insane son — the mutant Legion — went back in
time to assassinate Magneto, Bishop was one of the X-Men sent to stop
him. When they failed, and Legion accidentally killed Professor
Xavier, Bishop was the only time-traveler to remain when history was
altered and became the Age of Apocalypse. He eventually convinced
the Magneto of that era that the existence of this reality was wrong,
and with a great amount of sacrifice, managed to correct the error and
stop Legion. After the timeline reset itself, Bishop received some
of his counterpart's unsettling memories of the Age of Apocalypse.

The traitor in the X-Men was eventually revealed to be Professor X in
the form of Onslaught. Bishop's knowledge of the future was the only
thing that stopped Onslaught from killing the X-Men. As Onslaught fired
a massive blast of psionic energy at the distracted X-Men, Bishop threw
himself in front of them and absorbed the blast that would have killed
them. Onslaught, winded from such a massive attack, said that his blast
was enough to kill a thousand mutants and "Another time, another place,
I would have been proud". Bishop lost consciousness after absorbing the
blast, but soon recovered, although it was not enough to prevent
Onslaught from nearly destroying all of humanity. He made peace with
Gambit, who was not the traitor after all.

Following this, Bishop spent some time in a distant possible future,
detailed in the Bishop: The Last X-Man series, where he again faced
Trevor Fitzroy. He was temporarily returned to the present by Apocalypse
who needed him as one of The Twelve, before finally returning
permanently during the Maximum Security crossover.

X-Treme X-Men

Bishop was a founding member of Storm's splinter team of X-Men, whose
mission was to search for the Books of Truth, the diaries of the
precognitive mutant Destiny. They left against the will and
knowledge of the main team, as the splinter group did not trust in
Xavier or the others to use the diaries for the benefit of humanity.

District X

Bishop joined the Federal Bureau of Investigation. District X, or
'Mutant Town', had a high-population density. It was also a
poverty-stricken area with high crime rates. Bishop was assigned to the
area in order to resolve mutant-related crimes.

Civil War

In the Civil War: X-Men miniseries Bishop sides with the O*N*E* to
bring in the X-Men and the 198. He argues with Cyclops over allowing
their escape, and states his fear of what the future might hold. Val
Cooper and Tony Stark let Bishop lead Micromax and Sabra into action
against Domino, Shatterstar, and the rest of the 198. Bishop led them to
the base where the 198 were hiding and told the X-Men to stand down upon
their arrival. General Demetrius Lazer betrayed him by ensuring that
Cyclops attacked Bishop. Though at first he simply absorbed it, the
power was too much for him to control and he was overwhelmed. Bishop was
forced to direct the energy he had absorbed upwards in a powerful blast
that destroyed an O*N*E* Sentinel. He later teamed up with the X-Men to
save the 198 from a bomb explosion and then went his own way, leaving
the X-Men. Bishop was among Iron Man's pro-registration forces that
guarded the Negative Zone prison. When Captain America's team breaks in
a fight ensues, putting Bishop at odds with his former teammates Storm
and Cable.

Messiah Complex

In Messiah Complex, an event revitalized Bishop's timeline as a viable
future: the birth of the first mutant child since M-Day. As the
Marauders, on Mister Sinister's orders, try to gather anyone and
anything with knowledge of the future, Bishop is the only target they
were unable to locate and terminate. It is revealed that he had betrayed
the X-Men, and he attempted to kill the baby. Before he could succeed,
he was thwarted by the Marauders, who escaped with the baby. As
X-Men arrive on the scene, Bishop pretends to have attempted to retrieve
the baby. As Multiple Man's duplicate and Layla Miller find out in their
mission to one of the planet's possible futures (80 years in the future)
that the birth of the child created, the child apparently kills a
million people in an event dubbed the Six-Second War, and the U.S.
government incarcerates all the mutants into concentration camps, where
Bishop is born, grows up, and sees his parents killed. As Multiple Man's
dupe and Layla find out, Bishop wishes at a young age to have had the
opportunity to kill the baby, so that, while he would not be born, he
would also not have to see his parents die, and to endure the horrors of
life in the concentration camps. Layla kills the dupe, so that the
information conveyed to them by young Bishop can return to the present,
to the Multiple Man prime, who conveys Bishop's treachery to the
X-Men. The X-Men then attempted to alert X-Force to Bishop's
betrayal, but he managed to block all of their communication channels.
After arriving on Muir Island and fighting past the Marauders, Bishop
found Cable attempting to escape with the baby, and the two fight. Both
mutants are then attacked by Predator X, who viciously rips off Bishop's
right arm. Bishop cauterizes his torn shoulder on an unconscious Sunfire
and in an attempt to shoot down a teleporting Cable, he misses and hits
Professor X instead. [Cover art for Cable (vol. 2) #4. Art by
Ariel Olivetti.|thumb]

Chasing the Mutant Messiah

Bishop managed to escape the X-Men after he seemingly killed their
mentor, and stole a nuclear powered bionic arm from Forge equipped with
a timeslide device, which he uses to track down Cable and the newborn
mutant. Upon finding them, he shoots Cable twice before being
hindered by a local gang. With Cable severely weakened by blood loss, he
makes a risky attack before the gang can find heavier weapons. He
later manages to track down Cable, slaying several mutated beasts in the
process, and shoot the Mutant Messiah. He also finds that in the future
generated by his choice, Cable will be always revered as a Messianic
figure who tried his best to protect the Child, and saved humanity from
the very beasts Bishop unwillingly saved Cable from. It has been
revealed that the Messiah child is still alive and Bishop has been
captured by the X-Men. In his efforts to kill the child Bishop has left
several traps for Cable throughout the timestream, killing millions in
the process, though he doesn't see them as people who actually exist,
but as people who wouldn't exist or come back to life if he kills
Hope.

Messiah War

After multiple failings at killing Hope, Bishop locates and enlists the
aid of Stryfe, promising him that he would aid him in killing Apocalypse
and Cable. Stryfe and Bishop travel to a point in the future where
Apocalypse is at his weakest and manage to defeat him. Stryfe builds
an empire using Celestial technology and Bishop becomes his right-hand
man, waiting for Cable and Hope to re-emerge. When they do appear along
with X-Force, Hope is kidnapped. Bishop betrays Stryfe and his plot to
kill Hope is foiled by Stryfe, who wants to make her his heir. Both
attempts are foiled by Apocalypse, X-Force, and Cable. Cable manages to
rescue Hope and escape yet again. Bishop escapes into the "near
future" of the 21st century, reconstructing his arm, vowing to find Hope
once again.

Homecoming

After several years of running from Bishop, Hope finally decides that it
is time to return to the present. During a battle, Bishop manages to
knock out Cable. In a fit of rage, Hope's powers awaken and render
Bishop unconscious. Hope then attempts to kill Bishop, but is stopped by
Cable. They take Bishop's time machine and leave him stranded. Bishop is
somehow transported with them and begins chasing them through time, in
an attempt to kill Hope before they reach the present. In Cable
#24, Hope and Cable return to the present time but Bishop follows them.
He attacks them, running Cable through with a sword. As Cable is
incapacitated, Hope rushes to his aid but is ultimately overpowered by
Bishop. Cable takes out Bishop's time traveling device from his
techno-organic arm, performs some alterations on it and places it in
Bishop's robotic arm. Cable recovers enough to toss Bishop into the
subway. As Bishop attempts to kill Hope one last time, he is transported
to a barren and dead Earth (as a result of his efforts to limit Cable
and Hope's attempts to find allies and shelter through different time
periods) with a red Sun in the sky (cause unknown). Bishop, being
overconfident, attempts to travel back to the present time to continue
his quest to kill Cable and Hope Summers, but due to Cable sabotaging
Bishop's time traveling device, this attempt causes his robotic arm to
explode. This leaves him stranded in the year 6700 A.D. Bishop is last
shown thinking to himself concerning Cable and Hope, "I was as much a
father to that girl as you were. Whatever she becomes, it's because of
me. I was doing the right thing. Wasn't I?"

Return to the Present

In Uncanny X-Force vol. 2 #1, Bishop makes his first appearance since
being stranded in the future. He is shown arriving in 2013 Los Angeles
and announcing "I'm baaack!" He battles the members of the new
X-Force, before it is revealed that his mind is apparently being
possessed by the Demon Bear that once terrorized Danielle Moonstar.
After a lengthy conflict, Psylocke manages to pull the Bear out of
Bishop's mind, Storm also using the opportunity to disrupt the part of
Bishop's mind holding his memories of his hunt for Hope, in the hopes
that she will thus restore her old friend. Bishop is later shown
comatose as a result of his ordeal.

He eventually regains his memories of Hope. The self-control he has
learned during his time in the future helps him move past his former
vendetta, even helping to save Hope's life when Stryfe attempted to
manipulate them into attacking each other in revenge for their actions
against him during their time-travelling search.


Powers and abilities

Bishop's mutant ability enables him to absorb all forms of radiant or
conductive energy that are directed towards him and to release that
energy from his body. This power is passive, allowing Bishop to absorb
energy at all times.

When he releases the energy, he can release it in many different forms,
usually as concussive blasts of biokinetic energy, even amplified
compared to the absorbed amount. Bishop can also store absorbed
energy within his personal reserves, whereupon the energy increases his
strength and recuperative abilities, as well as affording him a measure
of invulnerability. He is also able to absorb magic energy (as seen
when fighting "growing men" in Limbo) and the psychic energies of
psionics as easily as all the other kinds. This does not prevent him
from being read or manipulated by a telepath but only sustains him and
helps him to slow them down. It has been clearly stated that Bishop is
also able to absorb and process kinetic energy similarly to Sebastian
Shaw, but in a much less effective way.

His powers make it difficult to harm him with energy-based attacks;
however, he can become overloaded from absorbing too much energy, though
his upper limits are unknown, even to himself; when Rogue was suffering
a power overload after absorbing Skrull telepath Z'Cann, Bishop was
pushed to his limit simply by grabbing Rogue as he tried to help her
drain off her excess power. He is partially vulnerable to non-energy
weapon attacks. If he were to be shot by a projectile weapon or hit with
a crowbar, it could harm him. He carries guns that fire laser beams and
plasma charges, and through which he can channel his personal energies.

He can "let his spirit go" as seen in X-Treme X-Men Annual #1. It's
unknown if this is a mutant talent, or an ability taught to Bishop
sometime in his life.

He has also demonstrated the ability of instinctively knowing where he
is and the present hour and date even if asleep, first mentioned in
X-Treme X-Men #1. Although being the great-grandson of Gateway, a
mutant possessing extensive dealings with time travel, this aspect is
not one of Bishop's mutant powers. Bishop's explanation is that due to
training, he knows where he is at all times.

Bishop is a highly athletic man, an excellent hand-to-hand combatant
with many years of armed and unarmed combat training, and a superb
marksman with firearms. When he first came to the modern era, Bishop
carried XSE guns from his time that fired laser beams and plasma
charges. He also wore his XSE uniform, modeled after X-Men uniforms,
which contained body armor.

His current right arm is a prosthetic, stolen from Forge. A
nuclear-powered battle-ready arm, incorporates in its design a
time-travel device, the ability to channel his energy blasts through,
and enhanced strength and resilience. It has since been destroyed
after Bishop tried to use it to time travel from 6700 A.D. to 2010 to
kill Cable and Hope Summers due to Cable tampering with the time
travelling device within it. His real arm has apparently been
re-grown after he was healed in the future by the remnants of humanity.


Other versions

Ultimate 

[Ultimate Bishop. Art by Ben Oliver.|thumb ] A time-traveling Bishop
appears in Ultimate X-Men #76. Moments after the battle with Cable
concludes, he appears asking if he's too late to stop Cable.

Wolverine knocks him unconscious and the X-Men interrogate him. He is
wearing the same uniform as the members of Cable's squad. He appears to
be much older than the mainstream Bishop, because of his grey hair. He
then leads the team into battle with Cable's squad. He fails to stop
Cable from kidnapping Charles Xavier (everyone believes Xavier is dead)
and is trapped in the present day, due to Cable's destruction of the
device that allowed him to time travel.

In Ultimate X-Men #80, Bishop has a conversation with his younger
self, who is incarcerated, in which he tells him not to use his powers
to escape. By Ultimate X-Men #84, Bishop has formed a new team of
X-Men (consisting of Wolverine, Storm, Pyro, Dazzler, Angel, Psylocke,
and himself). He is using the new team to stop a new wave of
Sentinel attacks on mutants, caused by an unknown enemy, revealed in
that issue to be the Fenris twins and Bolivar Trask. Wolverine appears
to distrust Bishop, promising to gut him if he tries anything
suspicious. Bishop was unconscious during the fight with the Fenris
twins and the Sentinels, but when Psylocke's life was at risk, he woke
up to defend her and revealed that she was his future wife.

He killed both the Fenris twins with his abilities and went on to lead
the New X-Men against the Sentinels. At the end of the battle, it was
revealed to the reader that he was in fact working with Cable, and that
the entire "Cable" affair had been a ruse to make the X-Men a stronger
team. The team remains unaware of the deception and Wolverine stabbed
Bishop at the end of issue #90, when Bishop stopped Storm and Dazzler
from being able to save Angel from being killed by Sinister, before
Bishop could reveal this. Bishop believes that it couldn't have happened
any other way. Cable later reveals the ruse, but Wolverine shows no
regret for killing Bishop. After the battle with Apocalypse is
undone by the Phoenix, there is no evidence that Bishop has been
returned to life, even though Angel was.

His powers have been revealed as density control. For example, he
destroyed a Sentinel robot by causing its shell to increase in density
and crush its inner parts; Bishop then reduced his own density (or
increased that of the air around him) and floated to the ground. He
also has access to teleportation technology.

Robert Kirkman later admitted that the Bishop mentioned earlier in the
series, is the same as the one he introduced; faced with the fact
that this Bishop was already introduced into continuity when he would
have preferred the character to work with Cable, Kirkman simply
introduced him as an older version of the previously-mentioned
Bishop.

X-Men Noir

In X-Men Noir, Bishop is depicted as the muscle for Remy LeBeau, the
owner of a nightclub and casino called The Creole Club.

X-Men: The End

In X-Men: The End, the non-canon trilogy of miniseries by Chris
Claremont, Bishop learns he has a teenage daughter, Aliyah, by
Deathbird. She becomes Majestrix of the Shi'ar with her father as
her Imperial Chancellor.


In other media

Television

[Bishop in the X-Men Animated Series.]

-   Bishop was featured in a few episodes of the X-Men animated
    television series voiced by Philip Akin. He travels back in time to
    stop the assassination of Senator Kelly and prevent the Days of
    Future Past timeline from occurring (with Bishop assuming Kitty
    Pryde's role from the comic version of this tale). Bishop believes
    Gambit to be the assassin, but it is later revealed that Mystique
    attempts the assassination in the guise of Gambit. Upon returning to
    his own time after saving Kelly, he finds the world infected with a
    deadly plague. He returns in a later episode to stop the spread of
    Apocalypse's techno-organic virus, but he also faces resistance from
    Cable, who knows the virus is necessary as it will create antibodies
    necessary to the stabilization of the mutant genetic code. He also
    shows up in some more episodes, where he and his sister travel back
    in time to stop Trevor Fitzroy from killing a young Charles Xavier
    in the past, causing constant war between mutants and humans in the
    X-Men's time, and his time changes into one in which mutants have
    been all but exterminated by Master Mold. They eventually manage to
    save Xavier, but Bishop gets trapped in the Axis of Time during
    Apocalypse's attempt to control all of time in the "Beyond Good and
    Evil" episodes. After Apocalypse is defeated, Bishop manages to
    leave the Axis of Time.
-   Bishop appeared in the animated TV series Wolverine and the X-Men
    episode "Future X" voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson. He appears as
    a member of Professor X's future X-Men team in the
    Sentinel-dominated future and was trained by Wolverine at a young
    age.

Film

-   Bishop appears in the film X-Men: Days of Future Past, played by
    French actor Omar Sy. The first video of Sy as Bishop appeared
    in the Oct. 29, 2013, trailer for the film. He is seen among the
    mutants that have met up with Professor X and Magneto at an
    abandoned Chinese monastery. In the final stand against the
    Sentinels, Bishop is killed when the Sentinels overload his energy
    absorption abilities and he explodes. These events are later erased
    by the altering of the timeline.

Video games

-   He is a playable character in X-Men: Next Dimension.
-   He is a playable character in X-Men 2: Game Master's Legacy.
-   A younger version of Bishop makes a cameo in X-Men Legends, voiced
    by Grey DeLisle. The X-Men encounter him while fighting Sentinels on
    the streets of New York.
-   Khary Payton voices Bishop who is a playable character in X-Men
    Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse.
-   Bishop appears in : Ultimate Alliance 2, voiced by
    Emerson Brooks. He appears as an NPC for the Pro-Registration side
    and serves as a boss fight for the Anti-Registration Side. When the
    heroes are fighting Tinkerer in a Repeater Tower to broaast a
    jamming signal, Black Panther mentions over the radio that Bishop
    has been taken over by The Fold.
-   Bishop appears in  Heroes as an NPC. The Bishop who is being
    used by Doctor Doom to empower himself with a Cosmic Cube on the
    mutant, is actually a clone created by Mister Sinister.
-   Bishop appears as a playable character in the Facebook game
    : Avengers Alliance, and was the PVP Reward for the 10th
    PVP tournament.

Books

-   Bishop plays a small part in the X-Men: The Last Stand
    novelization by Chris Claremont.
-   Bishop is a main character in the Spider-Man and X-Men novel trilogy
    Time's Arrow by Tom DeFalco with Jason Henderson (The Past),
    Adam-Troy Castro (The Present), and eluki bes shahar (The
    Future), in which he and Spider-Man travel through time and into
    parallel universes.

