BLACK FOX is a code name used by two unrelated fictional characters
appearing in American comic books published by .


Publication history

Black Fox is a villain whose primary appearances have been in 
Comics' Spider-Man titles. His first appearance was in The Amazing
Spider-Man #255 (August 1984), and he was created by Tom DeFalco and
Ron Frenz. The inspiration for the character comes from safari cards
bought by Tom DeFalco. The character subsequently appears in The
Amazing Spider-Man #265 (June 1985), #304 (September 1988), #348-350
(June–August 1991), Web of Spider-Man Annual #10 (1994), and The
Irredeemable Ant-Man #7-12 (June–November 2007). The Black Fox received
an entry in the Official Handbook of the  Universe Update '89 #1
and in the Official of the  Universe A-Z Update #1.

Black Fox (Dr. Robert William Paine) is a superhero whose primary
appearances have been in ' limited series, : The
Lost Generation. He first appeared in : The Lost Generation #12
(March 2000).


Fictional character biography

Raul Chalmers

Black Fox is a jewel thief with a long international career. In his
sixties, he yearns to pull off one last big heist so that he can retire
for good to the French Riviera. However, his retirement plans continue
to be deferred due to unfortunate encounters with super-beings. In each
of his encounters the Fox, having no super-human powers of his own, is
in way over his head. The thief's usual response when caught by a
superhero is to surrender and negotiate release, which he accomplishes
with fabricated stories about his poor wife and children or his poor
deceased mother. However, in his last encounter with Spider-Man, the Fox
was unable to pull the same trick and was carted off to jail.

In addition to coming into conflict with Spider-Man, Black Fox has been
forced to lead the Red Ghost's super-apes on a robbery mission. He has
also been pursued by Silver Sable and Doctor Doom, and had his fiancee
murdered by the assassin Chance.

Recently, he was defeated by Ant-Man, who took the jewels Fox stole to a
pawn shop and sold them himself. Black Fox, however, tracked down
O'Grady and forced the Ant-Man to repay him for the botched heist.
Ant-Man and Black Fox then returned to the pawn shop together and held
up the place. Since then Ant-Man and Black Fox have become partners in
crime of sorts. Black Fox can often be seen at O'Grady's apartment
playing on a Wii console.

Dr. Robert William Paine

Dr. Robert William Paine was born in the fictional city of Foxwood
Farms, Illinois presumably in the early decades of the Twentieth
Century. During World War II, Paine worked as an American intelligence
agent and was assigned to infiltrate Nazi Germany. After the War, he
took to living the life of a swashbuckler. It was during this time that
Paine was driven to create his Black Fox identity. After a conflict with
the vampiric villain Nocturne, in which Paine's true love Miriam was
slain, Paine declares, "Before, I was just a masked swashbuckler. After
that...that was the day the Black Fox was truly born." After many
years of fighting crime, The Black Fox eventually retired to teach
history and law at Northwestern University in Chicago.

He later came out of retirement to help the superhero team First Line
repel a Skrull invasion of Earth. During the final battle against the
Skrulls, most of the First Line team, including Black Fox, were killed.


Powers and abilities

Black Fox II possesses no super powers but instead relies on his wealth,
brilliant mind, and exceptional combat skills to fight crime. His secret
hideout known as "The Foxhole" is located on his family farm near the
city of his birth. The farm is called Foxwood Farms. Among the many
devices at his disposal is a radar-invisible jet named The Flying Fox.

