THE BLACK  (DANIEL LYONS) is a fictional superhero appearing in
American comic books published by . Created by artist Al
Gabriele with an unknown writer, he first appeared in Mystic Comics
#5 (March 1941), published by 's 1940s forerunner Timely Comics
during the period fans and historians call the Golden Age of Comic
Books.


Publication history

The Black  appeared in the multi-character omnibus title Mystic
Comics #5-9 (March 1941 - May 1942). His first-appearance origin story
was reprinted in  Super-Heroes #15 (July 1968).

The character also starred in a story in All Winners Comics #1 (Summer
1941), which was written by Lee and reprinted in The Golden Age of
, Vol. 2. The cover was also reprinted in Giant-Size
Invaders vol. 2, #2 (Dec. 2005).


Fictional character biography

Man-to, the last chief of a tribe of Blackfeet was dying and sought a
worthy successor. His medicine man, Running Elk, arranged a series of
tests for potential candidates, but over a hundred prospective braves
tried and failed to reach the standard required. Dan Lyons was the last
contestant, the son of a white man whose life Man-to had saved many
years before. Wishing to repay this debt, he braved the tests. He outran
a deer, swam upstream faster than the salmon and proved himself an
incredible marksman on the archery range, getting four consecutive
bullseyes while blindfolded. When other arrows were fired at him, he
caught them in the air. He then wrestled a bear and snapped its neck,
slaying it. Satisfied, Man-to gave Dan the sacred costume of the Black
, along with the responsibility to right wrongs and destroy those
who would prey on the helpless. He also gave him a long bow, telling him
to notch it every time he performed a good deed. Only when he had one
hundred notches would he be truly worthy of calling himself "The Black
."

His first public adventure saw him stopping a raid on the city armory,
carried out under cover of darkness after the crooks created a black-out
by attacking the electrical plant. In his next adventure, the Black
 stops Nazi agents from killing a refuge who has escaped the
regime in Germany.

Later, the Black  would relocate to California where he would take
down the Order of the Hood, who were attempting to extort the United
States into giving them massive amounts of money through acts of murder
and robbery. Later, the Black  would fail to prevent the murder
of German-American scientist Dr. Eisenberg from Nazi's operating out of
a German Bund. Despite this failure, the Black  managed to track
down his killers and bring them to justice. The Black  then
clashed with a new criminal known as the Grinner. Upon killing the
crook, he learned that the Grinner was Dr. Weem, whose only mistake was
testing out a cure for pneumonia that transformed him into a ruthless
killer. He then traveled to South America to investigate a supposedly
haunted mine with a massive diamond that killed with a touch. He helped
expose that it was all a hoax created by a con-man named Ridley and his
accomplice Baku, the local witch doctor who posed as the natives' god
Vool-Kah. In his last recorded solo adventure, the Black 
protected reformed criminal Jerry Madden from the vengeful Longnails
Legarya.

In 1942, the Black  met Captain America for the first time and
joined a number of other heroes in a parachute drop on a Nazi stronghold
in occupied Europe.

In 1943, the Black  was among a number of heroes who were slain by
the Cosmic Cube wielding Red Skull and impaled on a massive wall.
However, the Cube was recovered by Private Paul Anslen who resurrected
all the slain heroes who aided the combined efforts of the Invaders and
the time displaced New Avengers and Mighty Avengers. When the Skull was
defeated, the heroes used the Cube to wipe out the Black 's
memories of the event to preserve history.

In 1945, the Black  went to Europe to assist the United States
military in the war fighting the Nazis. On April 25, 1945 he
participated in a massive super-hero invasion of Berlin. The Black
's final mission saw him fail to save a hotel full of burning
people, causing him to retire in shame.

Modern Age

As an old man, the Black  attended a reunion party of golden age
heroes of which Captain America was the guest of honor. The party was
actually a trap set by the hero killer Zeitgeist who died in battle with
Captain America.

Later, Lyons made a Faustian bargain with the demonic being Mephisto
that allowed Lyons to obtain four superpowered costumes abandoned by the
superhero Spider-Man, and use them to launch the superhero team known as
the Slingers. The heroes eventually helped release Lyons from his
demonic contract, allowing him to die in peace.


Powers and abilities

Black  had no superpowers but he was an excellent hand-to-hand
combatant at the peak of his physical condition.


In other media

Television

[Black  (second from right) along with the other five "Forgotten
Warriors" as seen in Spider-Man.]

-   The Black  appeared on Spider-Man: The Animated Series in
    the five-part episode Six Forgotten Warriors voiced by Paul
    Winfield. Here, the Black  is OMAR MOSELY, a friend and former
    teacher of Daily Bugle editor Joseph "Robbie" Robertson. The
    Black  and four other superheroes (the Whizzer, Miss America,
    the Thunderer, and the Destroyer) gained their powers as the result
    of an attempt during World War II to recreate the experimental
    process that empowered Captain America. His employer and friend Dan
    Lyons had intended to participate until Lyons' father forbade Lyons.
    Mosely took his place, gaining superhuman strength and wearing a
    face-covering black hood so that no one would know Mosely was
    African American during those racially divisive times. Lyons allowed
    others to believe that he was the hero and Mosely his sidekick in
    order to protect Omar's secret identity. After Captain America
    "sacrificed" his life to stop the Red Skull from activating the
    doomsday device, Black  and the other heroes claimed the keys
    and retired while Black  held on to Captain America's shield.
    The truth on the real identity of Black  was eventually
    revealed to Spider-Man and the rest of the heroes that helped
    Captain America when Kingpin's Insidious Six were targeting them for
    the keys. Once Captain America was also returned moments after Red
    Skull's return, Black  gave Captain America his shield back.

-   In The Super Hero Squad Show, the Mayor of Superhero City (voiced
    by Stan Lee) wears a costume based on Black .

