The BLACK RIDER is a fictional Western character appearing in American
comic books published by . He first appeared in
All-Western Winners #2 (Winter 1948), from the company's 1940s
forerunner, Timely Comics.


Publication history

After appearing in subsequent issues of the All-Western Winners
omnibus, by issue #8 the book changed its title to Black Rider, with
the character becoming the lead feature. Other company characters, like
Kid Colt and Arrowhead also made appearances. After slightly changing
its name again, to Western Tales of Black Rider, by issue #32 the book
reverted to an anthology format and was renamed Gunsmoke Western
(which took over the numbering of the Black Rider title) through the
1950s.

Most of the Black Rider's adventures were drawn by Syd Shores. When the
character's adventures were reprinted in the 1970s in Western
Gunfighters, the character was renamed the BLACK MASK.

A one-shot revival, Strange Westerns Starring the Black Rider appeared
in 2006, with a story by Steve Englehart and art by Marshall Rogers.


Fictional character biography

As a young man, Matthew Masters was known as the CACTUS KID, an outlaw.
His criminal career ended one day at the Last Chance Saloon in Jefferson
County, Texas, when he faced a gang of killers who had taken the town
hostage. When the dust cleared, the killers were dead, and the Cactus
Kid was arrested for murder. The governor of Texas, convinced that the
Kid had learned his lesson, pardoned the young outlaw after he promised
to go to medical school and become a doctor.

Years later, "Doc" Masters became the new physician for the small town
of Leadville, Texas. Masters' new peaceful lifestyle left him unwilling
to use violence when a hired killer came to town, and he was branded a
coward by the townspeople. Masters decided to disguise himself as the
Black Rider, so that he could fight criminals without revealing his
criminal past to the town.

Sometimes later, the Black Rider investigates a crime in Texas that
leads him to New York City's Chinatown. There he receives help from a
mysterious Chinese man, who is eventually revealed to be a younger
version of the Ancient One, future mentor of the occult superhero Doctor
Strange.


Other versions

A modern-day version of the character stars in the five-issue ensemble
miniseries Six Guns (#1-4 cover-dated Jan.-March 2012), by writer Andy
Diggle and artist Davide Gianfelice, and also starring the extant female
mercenary Tarantula and new contemporary versions of the  Old West
heroes Tex Dawson a.k.a. the Western Kid; Matt Slade; and the Two-Gun
Kid.

