THE BLAZING SKULL (MARK ANTHONY TODD) is a fictional superhero appearing
in American comic books published by . The character was
created during the Golden Age of Comic Books by 's predecessor,
Timely Comics, and first appeared in Mystic Comics # 5 (March 1941).
The character's writer and artist creators are unknown.

The Blazing Skull should not be confused with 's unrelated
supernatural motorcyclist the Ghost Rider, who is depicted with a
flaming skull. Also, the unrelated  character Skull the Slayer
(James Scully) briefly used the alias "Blazing Skull."


Publication history

The Blazing Skull debuted in "The Story of Mark Todd", a nine-page tale
in the 1941 comic that also introduced cover character the Black 
and fellow superhero the Terror. He continued to appear in Mystic
Comics through issue #9 (May 1941), with at least one story ("The
Thing", in #8) confirmed to have been penciled by Golden Age great Syd
Shores.

A simulacrum of the Blazing Skull briefly appeared, along with simulacra
of the Patriot, the Fin, and the Golden Age Angel and Vision, to aid the
superhero team the Avengers in The Avengers #97 (March 1972).

The actual Blazing Skull starred in a solo period adventure, set during
World War II, in Midnight Sons Unlimited #9 (May 1995). Nearly 10
years later, he was reintroduced into modern-day continuity in the
four-part story arc "Once an Invader" in The Avengers vol. 3, #82-84
(July-Sept. 2004) and in the quirkily numbered New Invaders #0 (Aug.
2004). The Blazing Skull appeared through the final issue, New
Invaders #9 (June 2005).

A separate character, Jim Scully, also known as Skull the Slayer, was
depicted as an unrelated and differently designed Blazing Skull in
Quasar #46 (May 1993), as part of the group Shock Troop.


Fictional character biography

Foreign correspondent Mark Todd, assigned by his newspaper to cover the
Second Sino-Japanese War, is forced to take refuge in a cave during an
artillery bombardment by the Japanese. There he meets the Skull Men, a
strange race with burning skulls for heads. They inform him he has been
chosen by the forces of destiny to be the champion of freedom, and they
begin his training, which grants him abilities such as invulnerability
to fire. Once his training is completed, he returns home and, motivated
by the horrors of Nazism, dons a uniform with a flaming mask (in honor
of the Skull Men), taking the name "The Blazing Skull". As time passes
and he continues to master the Skull Men's teachings, he gains the
ability to turn his flesh invisible, mimicking his teachers' appearance,
and stops using the mask.

Soon afterwards, Todd comes into contact with the WWII superhero team,
the Invaders, and aids them against a team of Axis superhumans, saving
the life of Namor the Sub-Mariner. He also fights alongside the team
during a massed Allied superhuman airdrop into a Nazi stronghold.

As the war in Europe comes to a close, the Blazing Skull teams up with
Union Jack and the Destroyer to break up an enemy spy-ring in England.

In the early Golden Age stories, Mark Todd's given occupation is
district attorney. He is also referred to in one story as an
"amateur criminologist". It was not until the 1990s, starting with
the retroactive Invaders series that he was established as a newspaper
reporter, perhaps negating the descriptions of him as a D.A. and/or
criminologist.

In modern day

The Blazing Skull later appears in modern times as a captive of Middle
Eastern terrorists, having not aged in the decades since the war due to
his healing factor. He is freed by the U.S. Agent, who recruits him
into a new, present-day version of the Invaders. He has related that
between the war and the present he has fought as a superhero at
different times in different places, even using different names, such as
the SMOKING HEAD during the 1960s.

Blazing Skull is recruited by the Fifty State Initiative to become a
part of New Jersey's superhero team the Defenders, alongside She-Hulk,
Nighthawk, and briefly, Colossus.


Powers and abilities

Due to being trained by the Skull Men, Blazing Skull is immune to fire.
He also possesses superhuman strength, a regenerative healing factor,
and the ability to turn his flesh invisible, giving him the appearance
of a walking skeleton. He later gains the ability to generate and
project flames.


Footnotes

