BLING! (ROXANNE "ROXY" WASHINGTON) is a fictional character, a mutant
appearing in American comic books published by . She
attended the Xavier Institute before its closing and is a member of the
X-Men's training squad. Her first appearance was in X-Men, vol. 2
#171.


Fictional character biography

Roxy Washington is the daughter of a celebrity couple Roy "Daddy Libido"
Washington and Angel "Sexy Mutha" Depres, who are purportedly both
popular hip hop artists in the  Universe. Appearing in her
parents' rap videos from a young age, Washington was often targeted by
would-be kidnappers and assassins.

Determined not to follow in her parents' footsteps, Washington turns her
back on the music industry as a teenager and enrolls as a student at the
Xavier Institute under the tutelage of Gambit. At the Institute,
Washington carries a strong academic record and responsibility, and is
more interested in improving herself and her mutant abilities rather
than participating in the social conflict between humans and mutants, of
which the X-Men are typically involved.

Gambit's squad

As a member of Gambit's squad, the Chevaliers, Washington is forced
to deal with the arrival of a new student, Foxx, and her infatuation
with their squad instructor, despite being attracted to Foxx herself,
indicating that Bling! is bisexual (confirmed in the X-Men: The 198
Files handbook). Bling!'s attraction toward Foxx ends after Foxx is
revealed to be the shapeshifting Mystique, attempting to sabotage Gambit
and Rogue's relationship.

M-Day and beyond

Bling! retained her powers after M-Day, an event in which the Scarlet
Witch casts a magic spell depowering over 90 percent of the mutant
population. She later assists Havok's squad when O*N*E, a squad of
government-run Sentinels arrive to protect the remaining mutant
population seeking refuge at the Institute. She is also called upon to
assist the senior X-Men teams when Apocalypse returns, particularly due
to a lack of senior X-Men at the time. Despite being highly recommended
by Rogue and Havok and having been offered a position on the New X-Men
squad, Roxy reveals that although she has a knack for field missions,
she is intimidated by the idea of being a full-time X-Team member,
feeling uneasy about the danger involved. She also contemplated leaving
the institute with fellow student Onyxx for fear that the O*N*E* will
soon be ordered to turn the school grounds into a mutant internment
camp.

However, Roxy and Onyxx stay at the institute. Bling! is among the
students captured by Belasco in Limbo during his attempt to locate
Illyana Rasputin. She is returned to the school after he is defeated.
When the school is shut down and the X-Men disband after the events of
Messiah Complex,_ the X-Men move to San Francisco and set up a new base
in California. Bling! follows and rejoins the school, helping to control
rioting surrounding "Proposition X," legislature attempting to limit
mutant reproduction that is being pushed by Simon Trask and his
anti-mutant group, the Humanity Now! Coalition. During the final
fight on Utopia, Bling! teams up with Frenzy and Nekra in taking on Ms
.

Emplate

After an attack by Emplate, everybody living on Utopia is warned to stay
close together and report anything out of the ordinary. Roxy, sick of
watching Rockslide and Hellion fooling around decides to go check out an
amphitheatre to which Onyxx warns her not to go alone but says she will
stay in sight. While looking out into the water she notices a lighthouse
which suddenly starts moving towards the shore before disappearing.
After it reappears behind her, she is pulled in and greeted by Emplate,
who claims dinner is served.

After being held as his prisoner, Roxy attempts to fight back against
him only to fail until Rogue shows up to save her. After a long
battle that destroys his home and briefly anchors him to the X-Men's
plane of existence, they drive him away. Later during a conversation
with Surge, Mercury and Trance, Roxy reveals she has a crush on
Rogue.


Powers and abilities

Bling!'s bone marrow is able to produce diamond shards of varying
quality, giving her skin a crystalline appearance and the ability to
expel shards from her body at high velocity and grants her enhanced
durability.


Other versions

Age of X

In the Age of X reality, Bling! is a member of Magneto's resistance.

