The BLUE SHIELD is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic
books published by .


Publication history

The Blue Shield first appeared in Dazzler #5 (July 1981), and was
created by Tom DeFalco and Frank Springer.

The character appeared sporadically through the years since then, having
made appearances in Dazzler #14 (April 1982), Contest of Champions
#3 (August 1982),  Age Annual #1 (1985), Captain America #352
(April 1989), Quasar #8 (March 1990),  Super Heroes vol. 3 #3
(September 1990), Quasar #51-53 (October–December 1993), #57 (April
1994), Avengers vol. 3 #6 (July 1998), and The Amazing Spider-Man
vol. 2 #550 (February 2008)

Blue Shield received an entry in the original Official Handbook of the
 Universe #2, and in the Official Handbook of the 
Universe Master Edition #1.


Fictional character biography

Joe Cartelli was born in the Bronx, New York. He is the son of Frank
Cartelli, who was gunned down by the mob. He became a crime fighter, and
started to infiltrate the Barrigan crime family, masquerading as a
mobster. At one point, he somehow acquired a belt with micro-circuitry
of unknown origin that could give him the Blue Shield powers, and used
it to fight his family and various other criminals. He also shortly
allied with Dazzler.

Blue Shield was next seen attempting to join the Avengers, but was
then approached to become security director for Project: Pegasus, a
secret research project of the US Government. At that point, the
abilities once conferred by the belt were somehow natural for Joe and he
could produce the same effects without any visible equipment. He did a
good job but resigned after he failed to protect the project from the
alien life-form called Omnivore. However, he later re-accepted the
post.

The Initiative

Joseph registered with the Initiative, and was assigned to New York,
where he worked alongside Jackpot. While chasing a criminal, he comes
across Spider-Man, and considers himself more important, and decides to
engage him in an attempt to capture him. Jackpot comments that if he
could fly, he would have chased Spider-Man after he jumped on Menace's
glider.


Powers and abilities

[The Blue Shield from his first appearance in Dazzler #5, artist Frank
Springer.] The Blue Shield originally wore a micro circuitry-lined belt
which artificially enhanced his strength, speed, stamina, agility,
reflexes, and reactions, and endurance to near superhuman levels.
However, long-term exposure to the belt's field has altered Cartelli's
genetic structure to the point where he no longer requires the belt to
increase his physical capabilities.

The micro circuitry-lined belt is of both unknown origin and design and
grants Cartelli the ability to generate a powerful force field around
himself, greatly increasing his body's resistance to physical injury.
While surrounded by the field, Cartelli can withstand high caliber
bullets, powerful impact forces, heat, punctures, and concussion without
sustaining injury. The field not only protected him from physical
attack, but it could also filter out harmful gases and protect him from
temperature extremes.

Though exposure to the belt over the years has granted him superhuman
physical powers, he is not able to generate a protective force field
around himself without the use of the belt.

