BLUE  (ADAM BERNARD BRASHEAR), a fictional superhero appearing in
American comic books published by . The Blue  debuted
in Adam: Legend of the Blue  #1 (November 2008) and was created
by actor/writer Kevin Grevioux, who originally conceived the character
as a child.


Publication history

Adam Brashear debuted in the five issue Adam: Legend of the Blue
 mini-series created by Kevin Grevioux. A different version
later appeared briefly in What If? Secret Invasion #1 (February 2010).

In 2013, Blue  appeared as part of Luke Cage's new team of
superheroes during the Infinity crossover, in the  NOW! relaunch
of Mighty Avengers.


Fictional character biography

Adam Brashear is a former fullback at Cornell University as well as a
veteran of the Korean War, a member of the Marine Corps with two Silver
Stars. While in the Marine Corps he met Conner Sims, the friend he
would later know as Anti-Man. Brashear later became the project lead on
a scientific attempt to harness anti-matter through the creation of a
Negative Reactor which created a bridge between the Negative Zone and
the positive matter universe. This reactor would be a source of
unlimited clean energy by allowing devices to tap the stable event
horizon balanced between the two universes. Due to the unexpected
explosion of the reactor, both Brashear and Sims were subjected to
mutagenic radiation generated by the unstabilized event horizon. While
Sims' body dissolved into energy, Brashear became a stable "antimatter
reactor" with superhuman abilities, which he used to fight crime under
the superhero alias "the Blue ".

In 1962, Adam received the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President
John F. Kennedy on the day the President asked him to retire, since it
had been discovered by the public that he is an African-American. As the
Blue , Brashear wore a full-face helmet, but when it was damaged
in a battle, his identity was revealed. There was massive controversy as
the era of 1962 was too racist to accept a black superhero. Although
Kennedy personally approved of Brashear's actions, the President
reluctantly decided to ask Brashear to step down, and the Blue 
conceded.

He came back for a final mission, defeating the herald of an alien
invasion armada. After the fight, he left the Medal of Freedom in the
Blue Area of the Moon, where he first met Uatu the Watcher. His
conversation with the Watcher was interrupted by the late arrival of the
alien armada, which he defeated. The United States government used this
final mission to fake his death. The government later sets up
S.H.I.E.L.D. Agent Marlene Frazier as Brashear's monitor under the cover
name Candace. Frazier eventually became his wife and the mother of their
two children. Brashear later became a tenured professor of physics at
the University of Maryland.

Conner Sims, the Anti-Man, was a radical who, partly because of his
history with Adam Brashear, violently hated racism (he being Caucasian),
and in his power-fuelled insanity sought to eradicate it. When Anti-Man
returned and defeated the Avengers, Tony Stark (Iron Man) tracked down
Brashear and with the help of Mister Fantastic they came up with a plan
to stop Anti-Man. After a surprise confrontation with Sims on the moon,
Brashear was left unconscious. Later an extended fight with Anti-Man
resulted in Candace Brashear's death. At the conclusion of their battle,
Brashear took Anti-Man up to the edge of the ionosphere and siphoned off
his remaining "anti-matter energy" which caused his waveform to
permanently decohere and collapse.

Afterward, Brashear returned as a full-time superhero in Age of Heroes
#3. After a discussion with Uatu the Watcher, he travelled to Uzbekistan
to help the Winter Guard subdue the extra-dimensional King Hyperion.

During the Fear Itself storyline, Blue  was exploring the
Neutral Zone when he returned and discovered a submarine lodged in
Kadesh, his undersea base. Both the Chinese and American forces blamed
the other, and they seemed on the brink of war. Blue  managed to
save his anti-matter samples from being exposed to water, and relations
between the Chinese and Americans returned to normal. Blue 
wondered where the submarine came from, and he soon discovered that the
sea dragon guarding the Serpent's undersea prison was responsible for
sending the submarine into his base.

During the Infinity storyline, Uatu visited Blue  in his
Undersea Science Fortress which he had previously modified. Blue 
talked with Uatu about his family life and how he could have taken up
the opportunity to join the Avengers. After a one-sided
conversation, Blue  took up his costume and flew through
Shuma-Gorath's head during its fight with Luke Cage's team. He was able
to heal Spectrum (who had been incapacitated by Proxima Midnight's
spear) and boost her powers temporarily. Subsequently, Blue  was
among those Luke Cage declared to be part of his Mighty Avengers.

During the "Last Days" part of the Secret Wars storyline, Blue 
was seen with the Mighty Avengers where they fight the Illuminati. After
the battle, Blue  tells Mister Fantastic and Black Panther that he
is angry they never consulted the other heroes on this, saying they
could have prevented all this if they had all worked together.


Powers and abilities

The Blue  has powers that allowed him to fight the Sentry, one of
the most powerful beings on Earth.

-   SUPERHUMAN STRENGTH: Blue  possesses vast superhuman strength.
    He has been observed moving a meteor the size of Arkansas and
    routinely lifting and flying an aircraft carrier a considerable
    distance.The uppermost limits of Blue 's strength is unknown,
    but it equals or exceeds the likes of an enraged Hulk, Sentry
    and others.
-   SUPERHUMAN SPEED AND REFLEXES: Blue  possesses the ability to
    think, move, and react at superhuman speeds.
-   SUPERHUMAN STAMINA: Blue  possesses highly efficient
    musculature which produces no fatigue toxins, granting him limitless
    stamina in all physical activities.
-   FLIGHT: Blue  flies by manipulation of gravitons, manipulation
    of magnetic fields, control of his absolute molecular movement, and
    utilizing his superhuman speed. Blue  can easily attain escape
    velocity (or escape speed, which is about 34 times the speed
    of sound) and fly far beyond supersonic speeds, but it is unknown if
    he can achieve nearly the speed of light.
-   SUPERHUMAN SENSES: Blue  possesses superhuman senses of sight,
    smell, taste, touch, and hearing.
-   ENHANCED MENTAL PERCEPTION: Blue  possesses the ability to
    sense and comprehend things on levels that far exceed
    human capabilities.
-   INVULNERABILITY: Blue  possesses nigh-invulnerability and
    durability, being capable of withstanding tremendous impact forces,
    exposure to temperature and pressure extremes, and powerful energy
    blasts without sustaining injury. The Blue  has withstood a
    nuclear detonation without any apparent physical trauma whatsoever.
    He is capable of surviving in the vacuum of space unaided.
-   REGENERATIVE HEALING FACTOR: Despite his nigh invulnerability to
    injury, it is possible to injure Blue . If injured, however,
    his body is capable of quickly repairing damaged tissue with much
    greater speed and efficiency than the normal human body.
-   ENERGY GENERATION: Blue  has the ability to generate and
    control negative matter energy based on antimatter. He can
    manipulate this energy for various effects, including creating
    energy constructs.
-   MOLECULAR MANIPULATION: Blue  evidently is able to affect
    matter at a molecular level with a great degree of precision and
    control, as he did when he not only healed Monica Rambeau, but
    further boosted her electromagnetic abilities. It is not known if
    this ability is limited to electromagnetic particles only, or if the
    Blue  is able to affect all matter, allowing him to alter an
    object's molecular composition or transmute elements.
-   According to Brashear he is a stable "antimatter reactor", but from
    his broader explanation what he appears to do is channel exotic
    particles generated by a stable event horizon caused by the
    interaction of opposing positive matter and negative matter
    (Negative Zone) universes. Because Brashear has retained his
    abilities all this time, it would seem that either the specific
    generative reaction, that granted him his powers continues at an
    unseen or subatomic level in the facility where he first gained his
    abilities, or exotic particles generated by the experiment somehow
    became quantum entangled with Brashear.
-   BIOLUMINESCENCE: Brashear/Blue  has exhibited the ability to
    emit light from his body.

Brashear holds a PhD in Theoretical Physics and a Bachelor of Science
degree in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University. He
maintains a massive undersea headquarters in the Marianas Trench at a
location known only to Namor the Sub-Mariner.

