The BLUE BLADE (real name ROY CHAMBERS) is a fictional character
appearing in American comic books published by . Created by
an unknown writer and unknown artist, only appearance was in USA
Comics #5 (cover-dated Summer 1942), from by  forerunner Timely
Comics during a period known as the Golden Age of Comic Books.

After the 1940s the Blue Blade disappeared into obscurity until 2007,
when he reappeared in the limited series, The Twelve.


Fictional character biography

Little is known about the origin of the Blue Blade. Although he has no
powers, he still fought alongside the Invaders and many other heroes
against the Nazis. He is described by The Twelve artist Chris Weston
as "Errol Flynn turned up to eleven" and the guy who is "definitely
wearing eye-liner." The Phantom Reporter describes him as "Roy
Chambers, the Blue Blade".

He was among the twelve who entered a Nazi base and was trapped and put
into suspended animation. However, after the defeat of Hitler, he and
the others weren't discovered until August 2, 2008, 60 years later. The
US Government woke them and tried to conceal the fact that they had been
asleep for decades, going so far as to mock up newspapers and buildings
to give the impression that only a few days had passed. The Phantom
Reporter noticed discrepancies, however, and government officials came
clean with the truth. The Blue Blade immediately jumps to the conclusion
that they are "famous! Excellent! All in the papers! We'll probably get
our own radio show!"

However, when he attempts to cash in on his experiences and make a
career in showbiz, he only manages to create a vintage-style cabaret
show in which he does stand-up comedy with the help of a few showgirls,
the Bladettes. The cabaret is a flop, too outdated for the modern
television audience.

Hoping to revitalize his show, he tries to convince Rockman to join in
his endeavor. Upon his refusal (in fact the unbalanced and mourning
Rockman refuses even to answer), he contemplates the reactivation of the
robot Electro. He finally approaches Miss Zogolowski, the last heir of
Philo Zog's fortune and patents, proposing her to use Electro in the
showbusiness, in exchange for the money she needs to sue the U.S.
Government and reclaim its possession.

Blue Blade learns the robot, in trying to stave off loneliness during
their decades of imprisonment, had bonded with the murderous Dynamic
Man. Electro later murders a bar full of gay men. To cover up this
incident, Electro murders the Blue Blade.

