BLUE STREAK is the name of three fictional supervillains appearing in
American comic books published by .


Publication history

Blue Streak first appeared in Captain America #217-218
(January–February 1978), created by Roy Thomas, Don Glut, and John
Buscema. The character subsequently appeared in Captain America
#228-229 (December 1978-January 1979). He was killed by the Scourge of
the Underworld in Captain America #318 (June 1986). Blue Streak
received an entry in the Official Handbook of the  Universe
Deluxe Edition #16.


Fictional character biography

Don Thomas

S.H.I.E.L.D. decides to put together a group of Super-Agents, of which
Blue Streak becomes a member. Captain America later outted Blue
Streak as a spy for the Corporation.

Justin Hammer later designed Blue Streak's equipment and funded his
operations. After leaving prison, the Blue Streak led a successful
career as a professional criminal in the American Midwest. Blue Streak
was contacted by Gary Gilbert about the serial killings of
super-villains. Blue Streak was invited to join an underground network
to locate and eliminate the killer, but Blue Streak refused. Later on,
Blue Streak had a run-in with Captain America, and while making his
escape, he was subsequently murdered by the Scourge of the
Underworld.

The shape-shifter Dead Ringer later obtained samples of dead tissue from
Blue Streak's body so he could impersonate him.

Blue Streak was later among the eighteen criminals, all murdered by the
Scourge, to be resurrected by Hood using the power of Dormammu as part
of a squad assembled to eliminate the Punisher. Blue Streak wound up
fighting the Punisher's partner Henry instead, who broke Blue Streak's
neck and apparently killed him.

Jonathan Swift

BLUE STREAK (JONATHAN SWIFT) first appeared during the height of the
Civil War. He is the successor of the original Blue Streak. He is
later shown to be leader of the Fast Five.

Bluestreak (psychic)

A new character named Bluestreak has appeared as a Superhuman
Registration Act violator. When Mindwave was imprisoned by the
Thunderbolts, he began a telepathic conversation with fellow prisoners
Caprice, Bluestreak, and Mirage. Bluestreak only remarked that he wanted
all of the Thunderbolts to die.

Venom killed and ate a number of Thunderbolts Mountain guards, and
it was revealed that Bluestreak was telepathically controlling Venom. He
also mentally prevented the Thunderbolts from remembering that they
could stop the rampaging Venom, as well as the rebelling Swordsman, with
the nanochains. Bullseye killed Bluestreak and his allies in their
cells by throwing scalpels into their heads.

It is unknown at this time what connection, if any, the new Hellrazor
has to these other prisoners of the Thunderbolts.


Powers and abilities

The original Blue Streak's equipment included rocket-powered roller
skates which allowed forward and backward movement and leaping, lasers
mounted on the arms of his suit, and caltrops that he used to puncture
the tires of pursuing cars.


Other versions

MC2 Bluestreak

BLUESTREAK (Blue Kelso) is a fictional character who appeared in the
 series A-Next. Though not related to Quicksilver, her
powers and costume certainly invoke him, in the same way many of the MC2
universe characters resemble those of Earth-616.

Little is known about the energetic Bluestreak's past. It is known that
she is a mutant gifted with incredible speed, who left the newest
incarnation of the X-Men (the X-People) because they were not "flashy"
enough for her. Bluestreak's real name is later revealed as Blue
Kelso.

Bluestreak joins the DREAM TEAM, who soon become part of the new
Avengers team. She quickly develops a crush on teammate J2 (a fact to
which he is completely oblivious). Cocky and impulsive, Bluestreak often
has problems following the orders of Mainframe. The only thing that
surpasses her exuberant attitude is her skill at using her speed. When
Mainframe's inert body needs to be taken across the city in less than a
minute, she places him on a gurney and covers the needed distance in
virtually no time at all, even remarking afterwards that she could have
stopped for a sandwich, but did not want to show off.

Bluestreak is not to be confused with the deceased similarly named,
techno-based villain Blue Streak.

Powers and abilities

Bluestreak is a mutant capable of running at superhuman speeds. Her top
velocity is unknown, but she can exceed the speed of sound. She also
possesses incredible stamina and can run for long periods of time
without showing any signs of fatigue.

