BLUE EAGLE is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by . The character is not from the main reality
where stories are set in the  Universe, but from an alternate
universe.(See\ Sidebar)


Publication history

The character was created by Roy Thomas and John Buscema, and debuted as
a member of the team of superheroes called the Squadron Supreme in The
Avengers #85 (Feb 1971) as AMERICAN EAGLE, then as CAP'N HAWK in The
Avengers #148 (June 1976), and finally as BLUE EAGLE in Squadron
Supreme #1 (Sept 1985).


Fictional character biography

JAMES DORE SR. operated during World War II under the persona of
American Eagle, outfitted with a pair of wings which he obtained through
unknown means. During this period, he was allied with other heroes such
as Power Princess and PROFESSOR IMAM as members of the Golden Agency. At
an unspecified time after the war, he had retired, was married and sired
a son years later.

James Dore Jr., who was born in Mayflower, Freedonia on his Earth, was
an airplane mechanic. He began his career as a superhero when he
inherited the mantle of the American Eagle from his father and joined
the Squadron Supreme. With the Squadron Supreme, he encountered the
Avengers Goliath II, Quicksilver, Scarlet Witch, and the Vision.
Eventually Dore abandoned the American Eagle identity after a falling
out with his father over political differences, and adopted the identity
of CAP'N HAWK. Alongside the Squadron Supreme, he battled the Avengers
on behalf of the Serpent Cartel, and then turned against the Cartel when
their hold on him was broken. Alongside the Squadron and Thor, he
battled Emil Burbank and the evil Hyperion. Alongside the Squadron,
he was mind-controlled by the Overmind. Cap'n Hawk and the Squadron were
used as pawns in the Overmind's conquest of Earth-712. The Squadron
members were freed by the Defenders, and the two teams battled and
defeated the Overmind and his ally Null, the Living Darkness.

The Squadron Supreme, as a result of their conflict with the Overmind,
instituted the "Utopia Program". They assumed control of Earth-712's
United States, and publicly revealed their true identities. James
again adopted another identity after his father died from a heart
attack. Using a costume made by his dead father, he took the name BLUE
EAGLE. With the Squadron, he battled a group of rebel soldiers at Fort
Largo. The Squadron then battled the Institute of Evil. Dore then
discovered that the Golden Archer had used the Behavior Modification
Device on Lady Lark, and called for the Archer's dismissal from the
team. Blue Eagle was captured by Nighthawk's Redeemers and placed
under Master Menace's Behavior Modification machine.

Blue Eagle recovered and returned to the Squadron, just in time for the
Redeemers' attack on Squadron City. During the battle, Blue Eagle killed
the Black Archer with his mace, but lost the use of his wings after
Lamprey drained the artificial gravity effect from them. Blue Eagle fell
and crashed into Pinball, breaking his neck and the back of Pinball.
Both Blue Eagle and Pinball died immediately and were placed in
cryostasis until they could be revived and their injuries repaired.

Blue Eagle's wings were later adopted by fellow Squadron member Lady
Lark, as she had grown to love Dore shortly before his death. Lady Lark
later changed her codename to Skylark.

After a period of time when the surviving members of the Squadron
Supreme had returned to Earth-712 from their forced exile, they found
the government of Earth combined to create an armed force of Blue Eagles
to patrol and keep the populace docile. These troops would be opposed by
the Squadron along with the Eagle's opposite number, the Nighthawks.


Powers and abilities

Blue Eagle wears a specially designed flying suit of synthetic stretch
fabric equipped with artificial wings on his back enabling natural
winged flight, that was designed by his father James Dore Sr. (the
original American Eagle) and his mother Adrian Dore. These wings had a
"anti-gravity effect" that allowed Dore to fly. The Blue Eagle costume
could be enhanced with a shield, light armor, and a protective helmet.

Dore was highly skilled in hand-to-hand combat, specializing in aerial
combat. He demonstrated a wide range of skill with ancient melee
weapons.

