BOB is a fictional antihero appearing in American comic books published
by  and a sidekick of Deadpool. The character was created
by writer Fabian Nicieza and artist Reilly Brown. Bob first appeared in
Cable & Deadpool #38 (May, 2007). Bob has a cameo in the 2016 feature
film Deadpool where he is portrayed by Rob Hayter.


Fictional character biography

A cowardly young man, Bob was persuaded into joining the criminal
organization Hydra by his wife, Allison, who accused him of not being
able to hold a steady job. The thought of a stable career with a dental
plan also appealed to Bob, though he was disappointed to find out Hydra
does not offer full dental like Advanced Idea Mechanics (AIM). During
Deadpool's assault on Hydra to rescue the captured Agent X, he ran into
Bob and coerced Bob into helping him. Bob was hesitant, as Hydra would
not allow him back into the organization after having betrayed them, but
Deadpool, at the time four inches tall, tortured him with a security
card until he relented. He then forced Bob to fly them to safety in one
of Hydra's jets, though Bob did not know how to pilot an aircraft.

After Deadpool, Agent X, and Bob returned to the United States, they
found Outlaw and Sandi missing. Bob accompanied Deadpool on his mission
to save the girls and subsequently became an honorary member of Agency
X. He continues to work with the group on their various missions, and is
referred to as Deadpool's "Pet" (or "Minion"). During a raid on the very
same Hydra base Deadpool kidnapped him from, in an attempt to save
Weasel from Wolverine, Bob was shot in the leg. Weasel had been left
behind in the raid Bob had been picked up on. Deadpool knew that, when
Wolverine targeted the base, Weasel's chances for survival were slim.
When Wolverine cuts off Deadpool's head, Bob put it back in order to let
Deadpool's healing factor kick in. At the end of the incident, most of
Bob's former co-workers are slain. Weasel sends the rest to prison using
teleportation technology. Weasel saves the others with the
teleportation technology but it later malfunctions. Deadpool and Bob are
sent into the past, where they aid Captain America and Bucky in stopping
Arnim Zola. Following that adventure, Bob accompanied Deadpool on a
mission through various dimensions to help Doctor Strange save reality
after it was damaged by T-Ray's novice magic.

Bob also traveled with Deadpool and Weasel to the Savage Land, where he
ran away from an assortment of dinosaurs. Deadpool attempted to teleport
the dinos to Genosha as a prank on Magneto, but instead they were sent
to the Genoshan Embassy in downtown Manhattan, being infected with the
alien Symbiotes responsible for Venom and Carnage. During the resultant
battle, Bob's attempt to flee accidentally caused the death of one of
the creatures while a news crew watched. Thinking his actions were
intentional, they interviewed Bob who claimed the 'H' on his uniform
stood for "Hero". He then received a text message from Allison who had
seen the events on the news and thought it was hot. Bob is seen watching
television with Deadpool and his supporting cast as the series ends.

Bob is later seen assisting Deadpool defeat Tiger Shark. When Deadpool
tells Bob to throw him a rifle, Bob does not throw it far enough. The
rifle falls into the water, where Tiger Shark is waiting, and Bob is
knocked into the water. Deadpool saves Bob at the last second and they
are able to outmaneuver Tiger Shark for a while, although Bob is shot in
the hand. Bob explains to Deadpool that he along with Tiger Shark were
hired by Norman Osborn. Deadpool soon realizes Green Goblin stole from
him during the height of the Secret Invasion against the Skrulls.

Later, Bob is called upon by Deadpool to join him in becoming a pirate.
Bob abandons his wife to answer the call. Due to severe beatings, he
gets stuck as Deadpool's parrot. With Deadpool's lack of navigational
skills they become lost at sea for six weeks and Bob develops scurvy (or
possibly heat stroke). Bob attempts to gain help from Kalani, a blind,
beautiful information clerk on Jallarka, a tropical island the two were
planning to 'pirate'. Bob is pleased to be forced to spend time with
this lady when Deadpool's insanity causes him to demand her platonic
companionship in exchange for saving the island from other pirates. She
is pleased to make this exchange. The three work together and kill
all the pirates. Kalani falls for Bob and asks him to stay behind with
her but his husbandly loyalty is too strong. However, he is forced to
stay behind as Deadpool abandons Bob and Kalani with a crateful of gold
and musings on how he wants to help people instead of rob them.

During the World War Hulks storyline, Bob uses a time platform to send
Hulkpool (a gamma-powered Deadpool) back in time to kill Deadpool.
Unfortunately, it sends him to an alternate reality where Thing is
Blackbeard. Bob tries to correct the mistakes and ends up transporting
dinosaurs to that reality. Further mistakes in that timeline cause Bob
to be revered as an all powerful God by the entirety of modern-day
Earth.

Bob gets on the wrong side of a gang war between Tombstone and the
Kingpin. Desperate to save his friend's life, Deadpool battles X-Force,
who were trying to take him down. They agree to leave Deadpool alone
when they realize he is trying to simply save Bob. 

Bob assists Deadpool when an old enemy threatens all of reality.
Disposing of 'T-Ray' had caused magical breakage through multiple
realms, so Doctor Strange sends Deadpool and Bob through said realms;
their mission requires a monster slain in each one. Deadpool usually
ends up saving Bob's life in each realm as well. 

After two years of absence, Deadpool again calls upon Bob to help secure
an escape route for him and Shiklah. Despite initially being offended by
Deadpool's long absence, he agrees to help, somehow getting a HYDRA
Carrier to kidnap (thus, saving) the couple. However, the trio gets
kidnapped by MODOK, interested in Shiklah's succubus powers.

They manage to escape, but in the process Bob gets his legs badly
crushed and, as Shiklah pleads for his safety, Deadpool agrees to dump
him to a veterinarian clinic at first, then a real hospital  He
recovers enough to help Deadpool fend off Dracula's forces, using a
stolen MODOK's chair to move around in his broken legs. He
eventually manages to make a full recovery, attending Wade and Shiklah's
marriage 

Much later, a mysterious conspiracy draws in those Deadpool cares for.
This garners Bob a severe beating. 


Powers and abilities

Bob has no superpowers and does not have training in any combat or
tactical skills. The training Hydra gives its minions seems primarily
focused on running away and hiding when confronted with danger, making
Bob a parody of the cannon-fodder henchmen frequently seen working for
evil organizations in comic books. Even this training seems useless, as
Bob has cited such Hydra lessons as "Hiding behind each other" and "If I
can't see them they can't see me." Deadpool has said that Bob is better
at running away than anyone he has seen.

Bob has a pathological fear ingrained in him of certain characters who
are particularly devastating enemies of Hydra. Among these are Captain
America, Wolverine, and Elektra. Notably, Bob has mentioned Hydra
specifically trains their minions to flee as quickly as possible upon
hearing the distinctive "snikt" sound of Wolverine's claws. When
stressed he has a tendency to shout "Hail Hydra!" and other propaganda
of the organization such as "Cut off one head and two more will take its
place!"

Despite his incompetence, Bob sometimes gets lucky. He was able to fly a
plane a long distance despite having no knowledge of how to do so,
and killed a Symbiote-possessed dinosaur by accident while fleeing from
it. He was also able to save Deadpool's life during a battle with
Wolverine by staying put to reattach his head despite his cowardice.
Even though he is useless in a fight, Deadpool seems to delight in
taking him on dangerous missions, seemingly for his own amusement. Bob
goes along with him, although it is unclear whether this is because he
is afraid of Wade or genuinely considers him a friend - or because he's
a committed minion and does not know what else to do.

Despite his shortcomings and his cowardice, Bob's strength lies in him
being a dedicated friend, challenging his own fears to help his
friends.


Other versions

Identity Wars

In an alternate universe visited by Deadpool, Hulk and Spiderman, Bob is
a red-suited lackey of that version of Wade Wilson, a powered crimelord
of New York City. Feeling the need to eliminate his rival's murderous
empire, Deadpool kills his way through his counterpart's men; Bob gets
flattened under an I-beam. 

 Max

In Deadpool Max, Bob is a CIA agent and the reluctant handler of the
deranged Deadpool, charged with keeping up the façade that the missions
Deadpool is assigned all somehow involve taking down the entirely
fictional terrorist organization Hydra.


In other media

Film

-   Bob appears as one of Ajax's henchmen in the 2016 live-action
    Deadpool feature film, portrayed by Rob Hayter. It is not stated
    that he is a member of Hydra in this version as the film rights to
    Hydra are held by  Studios.

Video games

-   Bob appears in Deadpool's ending in Ultimate  vs. Capcom 3,
    celebrating Wade's victory over Galactus.
-   Bob appears as an optional mini boss in Chapter 1 of the 
    Heroes.
-   Bob appears as a villain in one of the Heroic Battles in :
    Avengers Alliance.

