BUG is a fictional character, a superhero appearing in American comic
books published by . Bug was originally a member of the
Micronauts and later joined the second incarnation of the Guardians of
the Galaxy.

When he first appeared in Micronauts #1 (dated January 1979), Bug was
known as GALACTIC WARRIOR, taking this name from a figure from the
Micronauts toy line on which the comic book series was based. The toy
based characters were all owned by Takara Co., Ltd., with any original
characters owned by . Starting with the fourth issue Galactic
Warrior's name was changed to Bug. This was done after  realized
that since the character's design looked nothing like the toy, they
could assume ownership if they used a different name.


Publication history

Micronauts membership

Bug appeared as a featured character throughout Micronauts original
run, starting from the first issue until issue #59 (dated August 1984),
the series' final issue. Months later  restarted the series with
Micronauts: The New Voyages #1 (dated October 1984) with Bug once
again appearing as a featured character. This second series lasted until
issue #20 (dated May 1986).

Planned relaunch and solo one-shot

In the 1990s  began plans to launch a new series starring the
Micronauts, despite the fact that they no longer held the publishing
rights to the toy based characters. Assuming that Abrams Gentile
Entertainment (the company that, at the time, owned the American rights
to the Micronaut toy line) would agree to this new series,  hired
Shon C. Bury to write the series and Cary Nord to draw it.  In
preparation Bug and the other Micronauts that  owned guest starred
in Cable #39 (dated January 1997) and Bug was featured in a solo
one-shot (dated March 1997). The negotiations with AGE eventually
fell apart, the series was shelved and the three issues already produced
were never published.

Bug would later appear with the other  owned Micronauts (now named
the Microns) in issues of Captain  in 2000 and 2001.

Annihilation: Conquest

Bug did not make any further appearances until 2007. At this point he
appeared alone, without any of the other Microns, as a prisoner of the
alien race the Kree. He was then recruited into a hastily assembled
covert team led by Star-Lord. His activities at this point were depicted
in the limited series, Annihilation: Conquest - Star-Lord and in the
subsequent limited series Annihilation: Conquest. He was then a
recurring character in the second volume of Guardians of the Galaxy,
which spun out of the events portrayed in Annihilation: Conquest.

Guardians Membership

Although Bug was not a founding member of the "modern" Guardians team,
Rocket Raccoon asked him to join when the original group disbanded after
some internal misunderstandings. Bug agreed, and fought alongside the
Guardians as they attempted to stop the Shi'ar-Kree interstellar
conflict known as the War of Kings. Although they failed, Bug stayed
with the Guardians as they dealt with the war's aftermath in the Realm
of Kings storyline through the series' end with issue #25 in 2010. Bug
appeared as a member of the Guardians in Avengers Assemble issues #4-8
in 2012.


Powers and abilities

Bug can cling to walls and has exceptional agility. He has extraordinary
sight, with enhanced peripheral vision gained by wearing his helmet. His
antennae enable communication with others bearing antennae, and provide
heightened sensory awareness with a limited degree of danger sense. 


In other media

In a Q&A for Guardians of the Galaxy, director James Gunn revealed
that Bug was in a previous script for the movie. 

