CALLISTO is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by  and is associated with the X-Men. She is the
leader of New York City's subterranean mutant settlement the Morlocks
until losing that post in a duel against Storm. Storm subsequently
leaves the group in Callisto's care as her representative, and the two
eventually form an uneasy alliance.

Callisto appears in the 2006 film, X-Men: The Last Stand, where she is
played by actress Dania Ramirez.


Publication history

Created by writer Chris Claremont and artist Paul Smith, she first
appeared in Uncanny X-Men #169 (May 1983).


Fictional character biography

Callisto's origins are unknown, although she claims that the scars she
bears are proof of "how dumb a mistake" it was for her to try to live
among normal humans; in one of her earlier appearances, her greatest
psychological fear is the image of the beautiful woman that she once
was.

Morlocks

Callisto takes up residence in an abandoned Cold War-era bomb shelter
hidden within the sewers. Under untold circumstances, she meets Caliban,
a mutant whose power is to sense the presence of other mutants. She
decides to make the bomb shelter a sanctuary for mutants like herself,
using Caliban's power to track down such mutants. She calls this
newly formed society the Morlocks, after the group of futuristic
subterraneans in "the Time Machine" by H.G. Wells. Callisto kidnaps
Angel, intending to make him her mate. Kitty Pryde is struck with a
deadly illness in an attempt to rescue him, and Callisto refuses to
allow her companions to take her to the surface for medical treatment.
To rescue Kitty, Storm challenges and beats Callisto in a duel for the
leadership of the Morlocks. As the new leader of the Morlocks, Storm
decrees that they would no longer kidnap and terrorize surface-dwellers,
and in return they would have peace. The confrontation between Callisto
and Storm leaves both parties consumed with hatred for each other.

[Cover of Uncanny X-Men #170. Art by Paul Smith.|thumb] Callisto
attempts to take revenge on Storm by manipulating Kitty Pryde into
marrying Caliban, but is foiled when Caliban releases Kitty from their
betrothal. When the wizard Kulan Gath enslaves and ensorcells the
city of New York and transforms it into a Hyborian Age city, Callisto
becomes his warrior servant. She battles Storm again, but Storm saves
her life. Callisto helps defeat Kulan Gath, and as a result Callisto and
her allies find themselves on a new timeline where Kulan Gath never
transformed New York.

Thereafter, Callisto becomes more of an ally to the X-Men. She rescues
Professor X after he was nearly killed by an anti-mutant mob. She
saves Power Pack from the Morlocks Annalee and Masque. Callisto is
wounded during the Marauders' massacre of the Morlocks, and takes refuge
with the X-Men. She convinces Storm not to give up leadership of the
X-Men.

After a while, Callisto moves to Muir Island to become the bodyguard for
Moira MacTaggert. With Moira, she is transported to an alternate Earth
where Britain is dominated by Nazis. Meanwhile, the Nazi
counterparts of Callisto and Moira appear on the mainstream Earth.
These counterparts capture Brigadier Alistaire Stuart at the Tower of
London, but fail in their attempt to escape the Tower of London.
Both Callisto and Moira and their counterparts then return to their
native Earths.

Being beautiful

Callisto later encounters an amnesiac Colossus, who has assumed the
identity of artist Peter Nicholas. Peter remembers nothing of his former
life after his journey through the Siege Perilous. The two become
attracted to each other after Masque, who had taken control of the
Morlocks in Callisto's absence, restores Callisto's beauty to greater
than it was, only to take it away later as a means of tormenting
her. The process is repeated several times before Callisto and
Colossus are rescued by Forge, Banshee, and Jean Grey.

Callisto began a career as a fashion model and moved above ground,
embarking on a new life with Peter Nicholas as her lover. They were
attacked by Genoshan magistrates but defeated them. The Morlocks
later attacked Callisto, still under the influence of Masque. Masque had
grossly transformed the Morlocks, leaving them with grotesque physical
mutations. They nearly beat Callisto to death. The Morlocks' Healer
treated her wounds, but accidentally restored Callisto's scars and her
original physical deformities. The Healer's powers were overloaded by
the severity of her injuries, killing him in the process.

Callisto vowed revenge on her former followers for stealing away her
looks, and then allied herself with Mikhail Rasputin, Colossus' older
brother. Mikhail and Callisto appeared to have perished when he used his
powers over matter to flood the Morlock tunnels. Rasputin had actually
transported the Morlocks into an alternate reality, where time moved
more quickly than on Earth. There she watched as the Morlock youths grew
up with great bitterness towards their elders for all that had happened
to them.

When the young Morlocks, now calling themselves Gene Nation, returned to
Earth with revenge planned, she went looking for help and located her
former love Colossus, who had recently returned to Earth after the fall
of Avalon. The two returned to the X-Mansion to warn the X-Men that Gene
Nation was planning to kill innocents for every Morlock killed during
the Mutant Massacre. Drawing Storm and Wolverine into the tunnels, she
witnessed as Storm fought Marrow in a duel that saw the X-Man once more
resort to lethal measures to win.

Callisto remained in the tunnels looking over Marrow until she became
injured during the events of Operation: Zero Tolerance. Recovering from
her wounds, she told Marrow to find a place amongst the X-Men, figuring
it to be the best place for her. Callisto also has a maternal
relationship with Marrow, acting as a mother-figure towards the young
mutant, though the two are not biologically related, making her the only
person Marrow would follow nearly blindly. After the six-month gap and
Marrow's departure from the X-Men, Callisto disappeared.

Later, Callisto was once again transformed by Masque, having her arms
reformed into tentacles. Callisto was also under Masque's control in
"The Arena," an elite fight club in Japan. Callisto and Storm battled
each other in the Arena, but later both escaped with help from Storm's
friend, Yukio.

Genoshan Excalibur

She was one of the main characters in the 2004 Excalibur title, where
she was helping Professor Xavier and Magneto rebuild Genosha.
Ironically, this alliance briefly (and perhaps uncomfortably) reunited
her with Archangel.

Son of M

In the aftermath of House of M, Callisto is among the many mutants to
have lost her powers. Quicksilver offered to her the Terrigen Mists,
stolen from the Inhumans, as a way to restore her powers. Callisto
willingly accepted the offer and the Mist effectively restored all her
previous abilities (minus her disfigurements and arm-tentacles), but
without any control over them. Her new senses are so acute that even a
drop of rain causes her tremendous pain; unable to handle it, she fell
into a coma. The depowered Magneto found her body and showed it to
Quicksilver saying that he poisoned her with the Terrigen Mist. He later
took her body to a hospital, where the effects of the Mists wore off.

X-Cell

Callisto was later reunited with Marrow as members of X-Cell, a group of
mutants who hold the government responsible for their power loss. When
Quicksilver offered to repower its members, she warned Marrow about what
happens to non-Inhumans who gain power from the Terrigen Mist. She and
Marrow later fled into the sewers to escape the government.

Return to the sewers

At some point, Callisto returned to the sewers, this time alone.
However, she is later discovered by various teen and young adult
runaways, who she begins to care for, though with a firm but caring
hand. Storm later stumbles upon this group while investigating one of
the young girl's disappearance. Storm and Callisto let old feelings
surface and the two fight. However, when Storm sees the girl helping
Callisto, she realizes that the girl is there by choice and the
hostilities cease. Storm helps them clean up. Before leaving, Storm
offers Callisto to send regular help should they need it.


Powers and abilities

As a mutant, Callisto possesses enhanced senses of sight (including
night vision), hearing, smell, taste, and touch, and possibly moderate
degrees of enhanced strength and agility. It has also been suggested
that her mutant power grants her tactical brilliance that allows her to
see the best way to engage in any given conflict. Callisto lost her
mutant powers after the House of M; her powers were restored temporarily
through use of the Terrigen Mist, although her senses were enhanced to a
point where normal sensations became painful.

Callisto also has excellent hand-to-hand combat skills, and is an
exceptional hunter and tracker. She is usually armed with knives.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

In the Age of Apocalypse reality, Callisto is neither a follower of
Apocalypse nor an enemy of his regime. She's the leader of a band of
pirates that attack the few vessels that venture through the Infernal
Gallop to Avalon. She captures the submarine Excalibur and kills all
of its passengers except for Nightcrawler and ends up being killed by
Mystique.

Cross Time Capers

Another version of Callisto is seen when Excalibur confronts inadvertent
visitors of a world dominated by Nazis. She is the bodyguard of Moira
MacTaggert. These Nazis unintentionally send Excalibur on a long
adventure known as the Cross-Time Caper.

House of M

In the House of M reality, Callisto is the leader of the Marauders, a
black ops team.

Mutant X

In the Mutant X universe, she still leads the Morlocks, but is much more
weak-willed and pacifist in nature. She is the lover of Mole Man.

Ultimate 

The Ultimate  version of Callisto is introduced in Ultimate
X-Men #82 as a member of the Morlocks. Her look has remained
virtually unchanged, and she has the mutant ability to sprout a mass of
tentacles from her eye which is covered by an eye-patch. It is also
apparent that she has no control over herself when the tentacles come
out as Caliban had to knock her out to keep her from killing Jean Grey
during a fight with the X-Men.

X-Men Evolution

In the comic based on the show Callisto appears as the leader of the
Morlocks.


In other media

Television

-   Callisto appeared in X-Men: The Animated Series. She and the other
    Morlocks captured Cyclops and Jean Grey rather than Angel. In the
    Spanish-dubbed version of the show, Callisto is portrayed as a male
    character in the two-part episode Out of the Past. In the other
    episodes involving the Morlocks, Callisto is correctly voiced by a
    female Spanish actress.
-   Callisto also appears in X-Men: Evolution voiced by Saffron
    Henderson. She is depicted as a less-violent, more even-tempered
    leader of the Morlocks. She first appeared to sabotage a beverage
    company when its beverage Pow-R-8 (AKA Power Eight) leaks into the
    sewers and is revealed to be poisonous to the mutants. She later
    returned in "Uprising" when anti-mutant thugs were using laser
    technology to attack the X-Men, Spyke, and Leech. In contrast to her
    original personality, this Callisto is a voice of reason with Spyke
    being the more violent-minded vigilante.

Film

-   Dania Ramirez portrays Callisto in X-Men: The Last Stand. In the
    film version, Callisto is a mutant speedster who has the secondary
    ability to sense the powers and locations of other mutants, a power
    that, in the comics, belongs to her teammate Caliban. She was the
    leader of The Omegas and then joins forces with Magneto's
    Brotherhood of Mutants. In place of an eyepatch and scars, this
    version of Callisto is heavily tattooed and has many piercings, and
    she seems to harbor a dislike towards Storm. She was electrocuted
    against the fence by Storm after their climactic battle on Alcatraz.

Novelization

-   According to the book adaptation of X-Men: The Last Stand, she was
    the leader of the Marauders, an all-mutant gang before joining
    Magneto's Brotherhood of Mutants. According to a novelty card game,
    Callisto is said to have been born in the Dominican Republic and
    emigrated to Washington Heights, in New York City as an infant where
    she honed her skills as a fighter and tracker. In the book she does
    not possess superhuman speed. The novel confirms that Storm kills
    her in the final battle.

