CANNONBALL (SAMUEL ZACHARY GUTHRIE) is a fictional superhero appearing
in American comic books published by , commonly in
association with the X-Men. Created by writer Chris Claremont and artist
Bob McLeod, Cannonball first appeared in  Graphic Novel #4: The
New Mutants (1982).

Cannonball is a mutant who uses the ability to fly at jet speeds while
encased in an impenetrable force field. The eldest of a large Kentucky
coal mining family, Cannonball is one of few X-Men from a southern,
rural background and has maintained the values of civility, hard work,
and a strong commitment to his beliefs throughout his career as a
superhero. Several of his siblings are also mutants and have joined
X-Men-related teams, including his sisters, Paige and Melody, and
brothers Jay and Jeb. Other siblings include a brother named Lewis, and
four more sisters: Joelle, Elizabeth, Cissie and another unnamed sister.

Cannonball was a founding member of the X-Men's junior team The New
Mutants. He joined The New Mutants' later incarnation X-Force, serving
as second-in-command and field leader. He joined the X-Men, becoming the
first member of a secondary team to "graduate". His tenure was
complicated by clashes with superiors and he eventually rejoined X-Force
and later the X-Men once more.

A "salt-of-the-earth", honest, well-mannered and responsible young man,
Guthrie is a natural leader. He is a fan of science fiction, especially
the works of Robert A. Heinlein.


Publication history

Created by writer Chris Claremont and artist Bob McLeod, Cannonball
first appeared in  Graphic Novel #4: The New Mutants (1982).
After a guest appearance in Uncanny X-Men #167, the character appeared
regularly in the title The New Mutants from its first issue, until its
hundredth issue, at which point he continued to appear in its
replacement title, X-Force. Cannonball briefly became a member of the
X-Men team in the second volume of the X-Men series, with issue #44.

He is a member of the Avengers in the 2012 relaunch of the Avengers
title.


Fictional character biography

Origin

Sam Guthrie was born in Cumberland, Kentucky. As a young boy, he
attempted to help out his family by working in the coal mine in which
his father had worked before he died. One day, Sam finds himself trapped
in a collapsing mine shaft. While trying to rescue his fellow worker,
Mr. Lewis, a friend of his father's who had introduced him to the job,
Sam unconsciously activates his mutant ability and uses it to save
himself and Lewis from the collapsing mine. This incident leads Donald
Pierce to find Sam and hire him as a mercenary for the Hellfire Club, to
use him in a plot to attack the New Mutants. However, when Pierce orders
him to kill the defeated New Mutants, Sam rebels against him. Professor
Charles Xavier sees the good qualities inside Sam and, after saving him
from Pierce, asks him to join his New Mutants. Cannonball leaves his
large farming family in Kentucky to join the team.

New Mutants

[ Fanfare #27
Art by Bob McLeod|left] As part of the New Mutants, Sam forms a close
friendship with his teammate, Sunspot, despite their differing interests
and temperaments (Sam's modest politeness against Sunspot's boastfulness
and hot temper). Sam develops a brotherly affection for Rahne, oblivious
for some time that Rahne harbors romantic feelings for him. Sam and
Danielle Moonstar act as the team's co-leaders. He also supervises other
teammates, including Magik, Karma, Cypher, Magma, and Warlock.

Early on in his career with the team, Cannonball visits Nova Roma and
meets Magma, on whom he develops a long-standing but unrequited
crush. The New Mutants and their fellow mutant students at the
Massachusetts Academy, the Hellions, have a relationship that varies
between uneasy friendship and outright enmity, with Jetstream (a Hellion
with powers similar to Cannonball's) pushing himself as Sam's particular
rival. Sam also meets and shares his first kiss with the young mutant
Firestar, then a student of the Massachusetts Academy. The machinations
of the school's headmistress, Emma Frost, however, force them apart
before they can develop their relationship, though they remain good
friends afterwards.

Cannonball later on saves the life of international rock star Lila
Cheney, with whom he becomes romantically involved. Due to the nature of
Lila's career, their relationship went slowly. Cannonball helps lead the
team through many adventures, which take them across time and space,
from ancient Scotland to other galaxies, even back home to Kentucky.
There, he teams up with longtime X-Man Dazzler and his own brother Jay
to save Lila's life.

While lost in Asgard, Sam helps a group of dwarves being attacked by
Malekith's warriors, at the cost of severe injury to himself. This earns
him the friendship of Eitri, ruler of the dwarves, and the affection of
his daughter Kindra. He develops an affection towards Kindra herself.

The New Mutants find themselves under the guidance of Magneto at the
behest of Professor Xavier. Magneto's heavy handed leadership did not
sit well with the team, and Cannonball began to display a measure of
independence and rebellion against authority. These traits would grow
stronger as he matured.

The entity known as the Beyonder encounters the New Mutants, and in his
curiosity, he kills them. They are resurrected by the Beyonder soon
after, but this trauma leaves the team deeply shaken. For a time, they
go with Emma Frost, to her Massachusetts Academy to join the
Hellions. They eventually recover from the trauma, especially after a
fight with the Avengers, in which they are forced to rescue Warlock and
Magneto.

While the New Mutants are at a Lila Cheney concert, Lila is kidnapped
and they ally themselves with the powerful entity Gosamyr. To prevent
Gosamyr's relatives from destroying the world, Lila teleports them into
the sun, apparently dying with them. Afterwards the New Mutants find
the X-Mansion has been destroyed, and formally reject Magneto's
mentorship.

Following two successful team-ups with the X-Terminators, the group
merges into the New Mutants. One of the new members, Boom Boom, soon
becomes a primary romantic interest.

To deal with problems with Danielle's Valkyrie powers, the team returns
to Asgard. Sam's feelings for Kindra get the team in trouble. When he
sees her being threatened, he rashly rushes out to save her and all the
New Mutants are captured by Hela's forces. The group is split up, but
Sam manages to lead his half safely through many dangers, later
reuniting with his friends. The New Mutants form a resistance army,
which includes the wolf-prince Hrimhari and the Warriors Three. All
manage to save Odin, who was vulnerable, from a murder attempt.

Soon after returning to Earth, the team meets Cable. They then
assist Cable in fighting the Mutant Liberation Front.

Wolfsbane, Warlock, Rictor, and Tabitha are kidnapped from the grounds
of the X-Mansion by Genoshan forces under the control of Cameron Hodge.
Warlock is murdered by Hodge in an attempt to get his powers. Sam joins
the X-Men on a rescue mission and Genosha's government is toppled. Rahne
stays behind to help the fellow victims of Genosha's regime.

X-Force

Cannonball and the other New Mutants leave the X-Men's supervision,
and join forces with the mysterious Cable to become the hard-edged
X-Force. Cable names Cannonball as second-in-command and field
leader of the team. Sam is impaled and killed by the mutant Sauron
during a clash with the Brotherhood of Mutants. However, only a few
minutes later, he heals and returns to life. Cable reveals that he
chose Sam to lead the New Mutants initially because he suspected
Cannonball to be an External - a particularly rare type of mutant who is
virtually immortal. Cable had come to train Sam to fight Apocalypse,
another External who, in Cable's future time, had conquered the world.
Many other Externals, such as Saul and Gideon, also come to believe Sam
is one of them. It is around this time that Sam's sister, Paige, is
revealed to have mutant powers.

Though Cable did not stay with the team consistently, he and Sam
developed a father-son type relationship. Cannonball's existence as an
External is disputed by Selene. His immortality is later brought up
when the time-traveling Jon Spectre hints at Sam's important role in the
distant future. Not long after Spectre's comments, Sam also survives
three gunshot wounds to the chest.

Sam's time in X-Force is not easy, as he is considered 'out of line' by
the X-Men and X-Force are considered outright criminals by S.H.I.E.L.D.
This devolves into a fight between a S.H.I.E.L.D. team led by Nick Fury
and supported by veteran superhero War Machine. Later, any rivalries
are put aside as Sam is instrumental in helping the other X-Men,
particularly Forge and Wolfsbane, defeat the Phalanx.

X-Men

[Cover to X-Treme X-Men #24.
Art by Salvador Larroca.] Sam later officially accepts an invitation to
join the X-Men. Initially, Sam is excited, this having been his
dream since first arriving at Xavier's school. But Sam becomes unsure of
himself and his abilities. He privately expresses his doubts to Iceman,
causing the veteran X-Man much discomfort. Sam battles the head of the
Shi'ar Imperial Guard, Gladiator to a standstill, despite being
overpowered, thus facing his doubts about his abilities, only to be left
behind as the rest of the X-Men were taken into space to save the Shi'ar
Empire. This leads Sam to again question his place on the X-Men.

Cannonball finds his relationship with Tabitha strained, and she turns
to Sam's best friend, Sunspot, for "support". Sam leaves the X-Men to
help his ailing mother. During his time with the X-Men, he also
infiltrates the presidential campaign of anti-mutant candidate Graydon
Creed, using the alias "Samson Guthry". Despite the rather transparent
alias, Sam is able to remain undetected until Creed is assassinated on
the eve of the election.

Cannonball rejoins X-Force, now independent of Cable and operating in
San Francisco. Cannonball becomes team leader again, after the injuries
sustained by Siryn. The team find a new mentor in Pete Wisdom, who
introduces the team to the world of espionage. Sam and Tabitha get back
together. After Wisdom's alleged death, Sam leads the team again and
attempts to continue Wisdom's crusade. Eventually, Sam and the other
members of X-Force had to fake their deaths.

X-Corporation

After X-Force's dissolution, Cannonball joins several of his former
teammates and former members of Generation X, in the Paris, France
branch, of Professor X's international mutant task force X-Corporation.
On a mission, later found to involve the Weapon Plus program, his
teammate Darkstar dies. At her funeral, Xavier gives Cannonball a note
with the whereabouts of Lila Cheney. Sam decides to take time away from
the X-Corporation. He works for a time cleaning up damages to the
Chunnel, which was partially destroyed in the mission which killed
Darkstar.

Back to basics

While away, Sam rekindled his romantic relationship with Lila Cheney for
a time. Sam couldn't find peace with his life, so he was asked by Storm
to join her X-Treme X-Men, a group of X-Men operating outside of
Professor X's leadership. For a time, he even was partnered with his old
friend Wolverine during an adventure where they pursued long time X-Man
foe William Stryker. Sam also found himself having a reunion of sorts
with former teammates Sunspot and Magma. He and his teammates rejoined
the central X-Men, after the events of Planet X. Sam is injured on a
mission and once again decided to break for some peace. He uses the time
to work on his own farm, which he had bought with his X-Corporation
paychecks. While on the farm, Sam found himself teaming up again with
Cable and reformed X-Force against the threat of the Skornn.

Sam and former X-Force teammate, Siryn, went in search of Cable with the
mercenary Deadpool, who could track the missing man via a unique
teleportation bond the two shared. Deadpool derisively refers to Sam as
"Cannonballs".

Sam has once more joined the active roster of the X-Men, whose team is
co-led by Nightcrawler and Bishop. For a while, he watches over the
younger, more carefree students at the X-Mansion. He also functions as a
member of the X-Treme Sanctions Executive (XSE). He has already
participated in helping the 198 and fighting the Shi'ar Death Commandos.
He soon suffers the death of his brother Jay, who is killed by William
Stryker. In the first part of The First Foursaken story arc,
Cannonball went with the X-Men to Central Park, where they fight the
Foursaken, who then capture the X-Men and sent them elsewhere. After
escaping, Cannonball accompanies the X-Men to Africa to help Storm
assist mutant refugees.

Rogue's team

Cannonball serves on Rogue's team of X-Men. After defeating the
Children of the Vault, Rogue announced the departure of her team from
the mansion. Sam explained his personal feelings about leaving to
Cyclops, saying that he felt he needed to leave because of Jay's death
and said that every time he walked through the door, he felt he was
stepping on Jay's grave.

After the team fights the Hecatomb and Rogue suffers a severe mental
injury, the team decide to rest in Rogue's childhood home, but are
betrayed and attacked by the Marauders who are on a mission to retrieve
Destiny's Diaries. It was revealed that Mystique is an accomplice of the
Marauders. After the surprise blitz, Emma Frost (who was trying to help
Rogue) was disabled by a neurotoxin, but was able to upload everything
she picked out of what was at the edges of the Marauders' psi-shielding
into Sam's mind and takes limited possession over his body, causing him
to flee (unwillingly) from the battle with Iceman. Aboard the Blackbird,
the two are engaged in midair by Sunfire, who cripples the jet.
Cannonball manages to escape and battle Shiro, who reveals that he
killed Cable. Cannonball shakes it off, explaining that it "wouldn't
matter who told me that, ah'd still be sayin' 'show me the body.'"

Sam and Iceman, telepathically prompted by Emma Frost, attempted to
recover the Destiny Diaries, which are hidden in a dilapidated
brewery. The Marauder's master, Mister Sinister, used a
reverse-engineered version of Xavier's Cerebro to track the pair of
X-Men to the brewery. The Marauders attacked Sam and Iceman and overtook
them. After the battle, Sinister attempted to telepathically erase Sam's
mind so that the X-Men would find him as an empty shell. This would
serve as a lesson to them and to the Marauders as well. However,
Sinister was distracted by Iceman, allowing Sam to activate his power to
rocket his way out of the brewery and escape. Iceman was also able to
escape, but it was revealed that Sam, who crashed through one of the
brewery's walls, was seriously injured. It was discovered that his blast
field, which protects him from concussive impact when he uses his power,
was not working properly. As a result, Sam received compound fractures
of the upper and lower legs, a broken collar bone, and other injuries.

Sam lies unconscious in the X-Mansion's infirmary. Dr. Henry McCoy
attends to his injuries and evaluates his condition. He notes that Sam's
brain scan indicates sluggish and non-continuous activity. However, at
the end of the issue, Sam is shown conscious, alert, and speaking
clearly to Iceman. He quickly recovers and is capable of taking part in
the final fight against the Marauders. It has yet to be seen if he
has suffered any lingering mental effects from his ordeal at the hands
of Mr. Sinister.

Divided We Stand

After Cyclops disbands the X-Men, Cannonball goes home. Paige picks him
up at the airport, extremely happy to have him back with the family -
she tells him he's lucky they're not all there to mob him. Sam is moody
and withdrawn, and as they drive, he asks Paige to stop at a local bar.
As soon as he walks in, the local men begin to glare at him, and the
bartender asks him not to start anything. Paige knows that Sam came to
the bar for a fight, as it's filled with members of the Cabot family.
Soon the Cabots confront Sam, and he pushes them to attack him, which
they happily do. Paige refuses to participate, and Sam defeats all four
men alone. She demands to know what's wrong with him, and he angrily
blasts off into the sky, saying he should have never come home.

Later, the newly formed Young X-Men team is tricked by Donald Pierce,
who had disguised himself as Cyclops and gathered the Young X-Men for
his own ends. Donald Pierce tells them the new Lord Imperial of the
Hellfire Club has formed a new incarnation of the Brotherhood of
Mutants. This Brotherhood is said to consist of Sunspot, Magma, Dani
Moonstar and himself. Eventually, he helps the Young X-Men come to
realize they have been tricked.

Manifest Destiny

Sam is soon called by Cyclops, informing him that the X-Men are
reforming and establishing themselves now in San Francisco. Sam agrees
to join this new team. He arrives in San Francisco just as Magneto is
attacking the city with a group of antique Sentinels. Sam manages to
plow into Magneto, disarming his artificial magnetism suit, and allowing
the X-Men the upper hand in the battle. However, Magneto still manages
to escape. He is later seen at a bar with Karma and Dani Moonstar,
where he reveals himself to be disillusioned by the idea of changing the
world and instead is content with making sure no one else dies the way
his brother Jay did. He is called upon to help deal with Empath.

Secret Invasion

Sam is seen working alongside Armor and Colossus when the Skrulls invade
San Francisco.

Reforming the New Mutants

After receiving an anonymous tip in Colorado about a young mutant
endangering a small town, Dani and Shan are sent to investigate and calm
the locals. During their mission, Magik reappears back at the X-Men's
base in San Francisco after teleporting off into the future after the
events of "X-Infernus". Upon her return, she informs Sam and Roberto
that Shan and Dani are in trouble and it will result in their deaths.
When asked what he thinks about the situation, Sam says that when it
comes to the New Mutants, he doesn't need to think about it. He
assembles a team consisting of himself, Sunspot, Magma and Magik to go
find them. While searching for them, Sam and Roberto come across a tied
up and unconscious Shan in the back of a bar, while Magik and Magma are
tricked into freeing Legion from a box.

The personalities in Legion's mind want to kill Dani because she can
help Legion get them under control. Legion locates Dani in a jail cell
and is about to kill her when Sam stops him. Dani tells Sam to let her
out but Sam refuses, saying she'll be safer in the cell since she
doesn't have her powers anymore. Sam and Roberto go off to fight Legion
leaving Dani behind. Unbeknownst to them, one of Legion's personalities
has the ability to project himself and is stalling them while he
prepares to kill Dani only to be stopped by Magik and Magma. They free
Dani as Legion retreats, Sam apologizes but gets punched in the face by
an angry Dani. When asked where she's going Dani replies "to make myself
useful"; she returns brandishing numerous firearms and tells the others
that they're going after Legion. However Sam tells Dani to go, she
isn't a mutant anymore and to stop pretending she is because one of the
most powerful mutants on earth wants her dead. Dani, upset gets into a
van and drives away only to turn back minutes later after Sam and the
rest of the New Mutants are badly beaten. After Legion is caught, Sam
tries to apologize but Dani limps away, ignoring him. Sam confesses to
Cyclops he feels as if he has messed up but Cyclops congratulates him on
keeping everyone alive and that's all that matters.

In the aftermath of Utopia, Scott reveals to Dani that Sam didn't pick
her for his team, making her very upset and angry. The two fight and
come to an understanding and Sam allows Dani on the team. Later,
over a conversation about Sam's past romantic affiliations (particularly
Lila Cheney) Sam and Danielle share a kiss (for comparative purposes)
that is interrupted by the team.

Regenesis

In Regenesis arc, he is seen joining Wolverine's side and apologizing
to Dani saying that he can't lead anymore and needs to go somewhere
else.

He is hired on part-time by Wolverine for the latter's new school.
Cannonball teaches a course in flying; those who have no natural flying
abilities use jetpacks. Samuel takes time to check in with his sister
Husk, who works for the school full-time. He, along with others, is
worried about Husk's mental state.

As part of the  NOW!_ event, Cannonball becomes a member of the
Avengers. He is seen eight months in the future living on an alien
planet in the Shiar empire with Izzy Kane and their child.


Powers and abilities

Cannonball is a mutant who possesses the ability to bodily generate
thermo-chemical energy and release it from his skin. This energy is used
as thrust to cause his body to be propelled through the air like a
rocket, at great heights and speeds with considerable maneuverability.
He can control his speed and direction through sheer act of will. At
first, he could only release this energy from his feet and legs, but now
he can fire it from almost any part of his body, to a wide variety of
effects. This energy also manifests itself as an impenetrable and
virtually indestructible "blast field" that protects him from bodily
harm. He can use this blast-field for the following effects: to function
as a personal shield or extending it to encompass others, to shape the
field around another person to imprison them, or to absorb outside
kinetic impact into his own energy supply, enabling him to increase the
bludgeoning power of his blows or to create explosive shock waves upon
impact.

His power levels have varied over the years - but at his peak, he has
been able to absorb (and redirect) the force of one of Gladiator's
punches.

He may also be a member of the immortal mutant group the Externals, due
to his apparent ability to return to life after death.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

In the Age of Apocalypse storyline, the Guthrie family was eliminated
during the Cullings, with only Sam, Paige, Elisabeth, and Joshua being
spared due to their mutant status. They were approached by Mister
Sinister, who offered them the chance to become part of his Elite Mutant
Force. Sam took on the alias Cannonball and became a member of the EMF
alongside his sister, Elisabeth, a.k.a. Amazon. He and his sister were
particularly violent towards the prisoners of Sinister's breeding pens,
as was their superior Havok, to whom Cannonball was loyal. When the
Elite Mutant Force was taken over by Havok due to Prelate Cyclops'
betrayal, Cannonball fought the Bedlam brothers, who sided with the
older Summers brother. Cannonball and Amazon survived and eventually
reunited with Husk, whom they rescue from the Seattle Core, and Icarus,
and together they set out to fulfill Husk's "revenge" against the X-Men
for Colossus' abandonment of her in the Core. He, along with his
siblings, was killed in fighting the X-Men, personally being crushed in
a metallic orb along with his brother by Magneto.

Age of X

In the Age of X reality, Cannonball and Husk are shown breaking
mutants out of prison and slaying the mutant hunters. They are then
approached by Magneto and his team of X-Men to join up with them.

Year 2043

In the ongoing Cable series, set in 2043, an older Cannonball arrives
when Cable is badly hurt and unable to time travel. Solicitations of the
comics refer to Cannonball as Cable's "old war buddy." Cannonball
implies that he, Cable, Bishop, and the baby are the last living
mutants, and that he found him with Cerebra, which was rigged for
non-psychics to use after the last psychic died. Cannonball allows Cable
to escape with the child, opting to stay and distract Bishop. Bishop
pleads with Sam not to fight, but Cannonball persists, harboring a
decades-long grudge against the traitorous former X-Man, and after a
long fight, Bishop is forced to kill him using a claw-like tentacle from
his new bionic arm (stolen from Forge) to rip out Guthrie's heart. As
Cannonball dies, he asks Bishop why, to which Bishop responds, with
visions of his future, mutants with M's on their faces and herded into
concentration camps, "To save you".

House of M

Cannonball had no House of M counterpart because he was traveling
through realities with Siryn and Deadpool when the change wave occurred.
However, Wolverine did beat up a young blond man for his motorbike,
which was called the 'Cannonball X'.

Last Avengers Story

In an alternate future, Hank Pym recruits Cannonball to be part of a new
Avengers, to fight Ultron and Kang. In the climatic battle, Kang murders
Guthrie with a shot to the head.

 Zombies

In Ultimate Fantastic Four #23, Sam, wearing his yellow and black New
Mutants uniform, is one of the dozens of zombies endangering a small
trio of humans, Magneto and 'Ultimate' Reed Richards. They had tracked
down the humans through the ruins of Manhattan; most of the rest of the
Earth had been consumed already.

Mutant X

In the Mutant X universe, Sam was drawn as a very overweight mutant
while his sister had an ugly appearance. The two would constantly insult
one another. Due to his increased weight, Sam couldn't stay in
Cannonball mode for long. The two worked with Wolfsbane, Sunspot, and
Jubilee as the 'Marauders', a murderous band of thieves based in the
sewers.

Ultimate 

In the Ultimate universe, Cannonball is a member of Emma Frost's Academy
of Tomorrow, a somewhat more pacifistic alternative to the X-Men. He is
the newest member.

When fellow student Lorna Dane is framed for murder and thus imprisoned
in the Triskelion her boyfriend, Alex Summers, recruits a strike team.
Sam and Alex are joined by Sunspot, Douglas Ramsey, and Northstar.
During the trip to New York, the team becomes lost and is ambushed by
the X-Men. Cannonball initially sweeps Wolverine off his feet, but is
soon defeated. Magneto has him killed in the crossover called
'Ultimatum' along with the rest of the Academy of Tomorrow except for
Havok.

What If?

In What If the X-Men stayed in Asgard?_ Sam, among several members of
the X-Men and the New Mutants, decides to stay in Asgard and marries
Kindra, daughter of the dwarf king Eitri. When Eitri dies in battle
later on, Sam becomes the new King of the Dwarves.


In other media

Television

[Cannonball standing in front of several members of the X-Men, from the
X-Men cartoon.]

-   Cannonball, along with his sister Paige, made an appearance in the
    X-Men episode "Hidden Agenda", voiced by Adrian Egan.
-   In X-Men: Evolution, he appeared infrequently as one of the New
    Mutants, voiced by Bill Switzer.

Video games

-   He is an exclusive hidden character in the X-Men Legends II: Rise
    of Apocalypse video game for the PSP. His powers in the game
    revolve around his "blast shield," in the form of rushing attacks,
    powered punches, and shields.
-   Cannonball is an unlockable character in the Facebook game :
    Avengers Alliance.

Novels

-   In the novelization of X-Men: The Last Stand by Chris Claremont,
    he is introduced towards the end when Logan is giving a class for
    new potential X-Men including Gambit, Sage, and Danielle Moonstar.

