THE CAPTAIN (formerly CAPTAIN ☠☠☠☠, with the crosses denoting censorship
of an expletive) is a fictional character appearing in American comic
books published by . He is a satiric superhero appearing in
the book Nextwave. He was created by Warren Ellis and Stuart Immonen
and first appeared in Nextwave #1 (January 2006).

In 2006 Editor-in-Chief Joe Quesada stated that Nextwave's setting was
in a universe separate from the main  continuity. However,
recent issues of Official Handbook of the  Universe, as well as
Civil War: Battle Damage Report, consistently place Nextwave's
activities in mainstream continuity.

According to Warren Ellis' series proposal (within Volume 1's collection
of stories), he stated that the Captain was pretty much every pointless
character who utilized "Captain" in his codename.


Fictional character biography

Nextwave

Little is known about the Captain's past before he joined H.A.T.E., the
organization which assembled Nextwave. One flashback shows that when he
was a child, his mother hanged his favorite teddy bear, Special Bear;
due to this, he dislikes teddy bears even in adulthood. (As with all of
the flashbacks shown in the series, the accuracy of this memory is
suspect, as Civil War: Battle Damage Report states that members of
Nextwave may have had memories altered by the Beyond Corporation©) He
claims to be "from ☠☠☠☠ Brooklyn".

The Captain gained his powers from "the Heartstar of the space between
the galaxies", also referred to as the "Messianic Siddhe-complex,"
which was bestowed upon him by a pair of small, green, altruistic
extraterrestrials named Spa-Fon and Squa-Tront in order to make Brooklyn
a better place. As the Captain was incredibly drunk at the time, it is
unknown if he remembers this event exactly, as he immediately attacked
both aliens, believing them to be gold-bearing leprechauns.

By his own admission, he used to go by Captain ☠☠☠☠, a moniker so
offensive that when he met Captain America, the Avenger beat him
severely and left him in a dumpster with a bar of soap in his mouth. The
Captain used a lot of codenames as well, all of them starting with
'Captain', and had to abandon them all because someone else was already
using them. In Nextwave #7 he mentions that he had to pay a
"marine-looking melon farmer" to even use his current codename.

The Captain continues to use his codename in the Nextwave group while
the other members have dropped them; according to Aaron Stack, this is
due to an inability to remember his real name. According to the official
theme song of the comic, in tone with the satirical quality of the
stories, he doesn't have a name anymore at all, with "The Captain"
serving both as a moniker, and as an impromptu first name.

Similar to the rest of Nextwave, the Captain dresses in civilian clothes
— sneakers, camouflage pants, a trenchcoat, and a white T-shirt with a
black star which resembles the Heartstar — despite becoming a superhero
"for the mask," as he stated in issue #1.

The Captain is extremely cynical, foul-mouthed, and hard-drinking. His
age is as yet undetermined, but he has said his mother conceived him
while listening to Roxy Music's 1982 album Avalon.

A text box in one issue states that despite his name, he is not actually
the captain of anything.

Initiative

The Captain and other Nextwave members appear on the solicited cover
to Avengers: The Initiative.


Footnotes


Related links

-   List of obscure  characters named 'Captain _'

Category:Fictional military captains Category: characters
with superhuman strength Category: mutates Category:
Comics superheroes Category:Characters created by Warren Ellis

 Wade Gum (2006-07-01). "Heroes Con: Joe Quesada Panel",
http://www.wizarduniverse.com/magazine/wizard/000765389.cfm

 

 Nextwave #4

 Avengers: The Initiative #1 Character Map
