KHN'NR is a fictional alien character who has appeared in numerous comic
book series published by . He is a Skrull sleeper agent
posing as the Kree Captain Mar-Vell (also known as CAPTAIN ).

The shapeshifting Skrull Khn'nr was bonded with the DNA of Mar-Vell to
lock his body into Mar-Vell's form and given technological replicas of
the Kree Nega-Bands. However, his mental conditioning was botched,
causing Khn'nr's personality to be erased and leaving the Mar-Vell
persona dominant. Though part of the Skrull invasion of Earth, this
Captain  decides to fight against the invading Skrulls.


Publication history

In 2007, Mar-Vell supposedly returned to the  Universe during
's Civil War crossover storyline. He made his appearance in the
"Civil War: The Return" one-shot, in a story written by Paul Jenkins. It
was later revealed that this was in fact a Skrull named Khn'nr during
the 2008 Captain  mini-series, which spun out of the events of
his Civil War appearance.


Fictional character biography

As part of the Skrull Secret Invasion, a shapeshifting Skrull called
Khn'nr was locked into the shape of Mar-Vell, the first Captain 
and given technological replicas of the Kree Nega-Bands to replicate
Captain 's powers. Khn'nr received memory implants to turn him
into a sleeper agent making him believe he was Captain  supposedly
up until the time of the invasion when a psychological trigger would be
activated to return him to his Skrull persona.

The real Mar-Vell died of cancer so to explain his comeback from death,
a false memory was implanted in the Skrull Mar-Vell to make him believe
he had encountered a wrinkle in space-time in the past, supposedly
caused by Tony Stark, Hank Pym, and Reed Richards' construction of a
prison within the Negative Zone, which Captain  touched and was
transported through time to the Negative Zone in the present day.
Initially unsure of how to approach the situation, the Earth's heroes
revealed Mar-Vell's history to him but also offered him a place in this
new future as a warden for their prison, at least until, as the Sentry
implicated, Mar-Vell would return to his past.

He is later called in to help the pro-registration heroes who revived
him, in the final battle of Civil War; however upon seeing the
chaos they are causing, he departs, to France, where he spends all of
his time observing a painting of Alexander the Great in the Louvre and
contemplates Alexander's similarities to himself. This painting was
meant to be his psychological trigger, but due to an error in the
methods of Skrull scientists, Mar-Vell retained his personality and
memories prior to his Skrull captivity in their entirety. Most of
Khn'nr's personality had accidentally been erased as a byproduct of the
botched mental conditioning. Consequently, the Mar-Vell persona remained
defiantly dominant.

When the Skrulls realize what had happened, other Skrull agents posing
as supervillains Cyclone, Cobalt Man, and a team of Kree soldiers
unsuccessfully attempt to capture Captain .

When he learned the truth and became fully aware of his true identity he
decided to embrace Mar-Vell's memories and rebel against the Skrulls and
protect Earth from their invasion. However, at the same time that
Skrull infiltrators strike S.H.I.E.L.D., S.W.O.R.D., the Baxter Building
and a number of Stark Enterprises facilities, Captain  launches an
attack on Thunderbolt Mountain, deciding that he can destroy some of
the things he sees as problems in the world, like the Government
sanctioned supervillains Thunderbolts, during the initial strike of the
Skrulls' invasion. He defeated the Thunderbolts, leaving Norman
Osborn to convince Khn'nr that only he can decide who he really
is, which leads Khn'nr to attack the Skrull armada. He destroys
many of the fleet but is attacked by a Super-Skrull and it nearly kills
him.

Barely alive after his effort, he manages to crash back on Earth,
crossing Noh-Varr's path, who briefly mistakes him for the original
Mar-Vell. Before dying from his wounds, Khn'nr spurs Noh-Varr into
continuing Mar-Vell's legacy as the protector of Earth, branding with
his dying words the Skrulls as liars and traitors and asking that
Noh-Varr defeat the Skrulls and take on the mantle of Captain ,
which Noh-Varr does, joining the Dark Avengers under that name.


Powers and abilities

Though a Skrull, Khn'nr has the memories, knowledge, and skills of the
Kree, Mar-Vell; presumably including Mar-Vell's Kree military training
giving him mastery of all forms of Kree unarmed combat, as well as
extensive knowledge of the technologically advanced vehicles and devices
of the Kree Empire. It is unknown if the botched mental conditioning has
left Khn'nr any of his previous Skrull knowledge.

The Skrulls also developed technological replicas of the Kree
Nega-Bands, though it is unknown if these work in the same fashion as
the Kree version which converted Mar-Vell's psionic energy into
strength, a high degree of imperviousness to harm, the ability to
project force blasts, survive in space and the power to fly at
faster-than-light speeds, the bands do give him exactly the same powers.
They are also fully compatible with the originals, as seen when Ms.
, armed with the original Nega-Bands is able to banish him in the
Negative Zone by clicking her wrist on his.


Collected editions

The main stories where the character was introduced have been collected
into a trade paperback:

-   Captain : Secret Invasion. . TPB:
    February 2009. ISBN 978-0-7851-2422-1. HC: August 2008.
    ISBN 978-0-7851-3303-2.
    -   Collects: Captain  (vol. 6) #1-5, Civil War: The
        Return

