CAPTAIN MIDLANDS, real name "RAMBLING" SID RIDLEY, is a fictional
character appearing in American comic books published by .
Captain Midlands was created by writer Paul Cornell and first penciled
by Trevor Hairsine and first appeared in Wisdom #1 (January 2007).


Characterization

Captain Midlands is a patriotic British war veteran and a right-wing
analogue of Captain America. An eighty-year-old Brummie superhero,
Captain Midlands is often portrayed as a grumpy old git. His real name,
"Rambling" Sid Ridley, is a combination of Kenneth Williams' Round the
Horne character ‘Rambling Sid Rumpo’ and Arnold Ridley who played
Private Godfrey in the sitcom Dad's Army.

Captain Midlands' nuanced role sees him more as a down-to-earth hero,
with Paul Cornell describing him as


Fictional character biography

As part of the 1940s British Super-Soldier program, Sid Ridley is
transformed into a "perfect" specimen of human development and
conditioning then sent off to be part of the British Army's war effort.

After serving as CAPTAIN MIDLANDS in World War II, Ridley somehow ended
up in British Intelligence and eventually MI-13. Ridley also
suggested that he had "knocked a girl up" and married her before she
died in 1963.

Captain Midlands served alongside other British heroes, including
Captain Britain and Pete Wisdom in MI-13, fighting supernatural threats
such as fairies, Y Ddraig Goch, alternate reality Jack the Rippers
and Martians. He was also reported to be fighting the Skrull invasion of
Britain.<ref name="CB&MI13#1">

When MI:13 refocused itself against a supernatural pandemic, Captain
Midlands - while carrying out routine crimefighting - identified a
demonic incursion in Birmingham and called it in to the agency. He was
captured and imprisoned in a council estate basement, being tempted to
give his soul for an unknown desire. He was freed by and joined Pete
Wisdom's strike team. However, this was a ploy by Captain Midlands to
lead the group into a trap so he could get his heart's desire, to spend
eternity with his dead wife.

Wisdom, disgusted with Sid's treachery, deliberately destroyed the
illusion of Sid's dead wife. After the team escaped, he was arrested in
view of the public and imprisoned in The Vault, a high security prison
in Shoreditch. In an act of mercy, Wisdom gave Sid the chance to kill
himself and avoid humiliation in a trial - although it was left
ambiguous as to which option Ripley took.


Abilities and equipment

Captain Midlands has no superhuman powers, although as a result of the
1940s British Super-Soldier program Sid Ridley was transformed into a
"perfect" specimen of human development and conditioning. Captain
Midlands' strength, speed, stamina, reflexes, agility, dexterity,
coordination, balance, and endurance are at the highest limits of
natural human potential, and despite being an eighty-year-old man he
still has a body of a superhero.

Captain Midlands wears full DPM military fatigues and helmet with a cowl
mask (similar to the World War II Ultimate Captain America outfit) and
wields a golden circular shield in the design of the traditional lion
symbol of Britain and coated in an anti-magic nanominium gloss.


Reception

When the character became popular, creator, Paul Cornell decided to add
more drama to the character by making him a traitor to the team;
stating:


Notes

