CARDIAC (ELIAS WIRTHAM) is a fictional character, a vigilante anti-hero
appearing in American comic books published by . Created by
writer David Michelinie and penciller Erik Larsen, he first appeared in
The Amazing Spider-Man #342 (December 1990).


Publication history

The character was created by writer David Michelinie and penciller Erik
Larsen and first appeared as Elias Wirtham in The Amazing Spider-Man
#342 (December, 1990) and as Cardiac in The Amazing Spider-Man #344
(February, 1991).


Fictional character biography

[Cover of The Amazing Spider-Man #344 (February, 1991), Cardiac's
first appearance. Art by Erik Larsen and Randy Emberlin.] Wirtham is a
physician and surgeon, and the owner and administrator of a biological
research firm. Elias Wirtham is driven by his brother's death to
research life-saving medical practices. His brother Joshua's death was
the result of corporate greed, who had a cure for his condition ready,
but did not distribute the medicine due to it not being a "profitable"
time for them, hence his motivation against corporations. As a part of
his research, Elias replaces his heart with a beta-particle reactor,
which supplies energy throughout his body, in addition to a vibranium
weave mesh under his skin. This energy, channeled through his muscles,
increases his speed, agility, and reflexes, and can also be fired
through his fists or the power staff he wields. He adopts the moniker
"Cardiac" in reference to the source of his power.

Fighting resumes

Cardiac becomes a vigilante, believing himself an instrument of justice.
He first encounters Spider-Man while raiding Sapridyne Chemicals, a
company owned by Justin Hammer, which possesses chemicals vital for the
production of cocaine. Hammer hires the Rhino to kill Cardiac for
raiding his company, but Cardiac defeats the Rhino. Cardiac next
destroys the house and property of Albert Brukner, a corrupt S & L
broker, and then attacked a subsidiary of Stane International that
manufactured dangerous electronic dolls for children. He invaded
Stane International itself to destroy designs for a sonic missile that
produced the effects of nerve gas.

Cardiac targets a filmmaker whose film is indirectly responsible for a
boy murdering his family. However, Cardiac incidentally encounters Styx
and Stone, and is inadvertently embroiled in a fight between Styx,
Stone, and Spider-Man. At different times fighting each of them, Cardiac
eventually cooperates with Spider-Man and together they defeat Styx and
Stone. Afterward, Spider-Man attempts to restrain him, but he
escapes. He next battled Code: Blue. Cardiac returns
periodically to perform his version of justice. He will not hesitate to
kill criminals, but he is often bothered by his conscience that he has
to. Cardiac later targeted a shipment of drugs, and again encounters
Spider-Man. After defeating the hero, he destroys the shipment, saying
that he wasn't "there to destroy a misguided hero". Cardiac helps
NightWatch to take down the corrupt corporation which gave him his
powers. Cardiac also confronts Johnny Blaze and Ghost Rider during
Blaze's mission to rescue his missing son from an evil corporation.
When Wolverine seemingly goes on a rampage after having fallen under the
influence of an alien, Cardiac is one of the many superheroes who
attempts to stop him. Pairing with Solo does not help, as they are both
swiftly defeated. Wolverine turns Cardiac's weapon on a nearby building.
Cardiac is stunned and buried under several large chunks of masonry.

Elias was listed as a "potential recruit" for the Initiative program,
according to Civil War: Battle Damage Report.

During the Fear Itself storyline, Cardiac deals with the fear and
chaos in his area when he comes across Charles Davies, CEO of Jerixo
Healthcare and tries to help his son who has meningitis.

The Superior Spider-Man

As Dr. Elias Wirtham he opens the new Hospital for Emergency Aid and
Recuperative Therapy (H.E.A.R.T.) in the former site of Mister
Negative's former homeless shelter. As Cardiac he has stolen items to
help aid patients being treated there. On a trip to "procure" a device
to help a girl with severe brain damage from "The Boneyard" (a police
impound for confiscated supervillain items), he fights with the Superior
Spider-Man (Doctor Octopus' mind in Peter Parker's body). Due to Peter's
interference with Doctor Octopus, he is able to temporarily stun
Spider-Man with a strong blast and escape with the Neurolitic Scanner (a
device that Doctor Octopus had invented to develop his mind link to his
tentacles), but not without being tagged by an old spider-tracer.
Dr. Elias Wirtham is preparing the Neurolitic Scanner that he previously
stole to scan the brain of his patient Amy Chen to find a damaged area
of her brain. It becomes difficult due to the complexity of the device
and Cardiac replies that the only one who can handle it properly is Otto
Octavius. When Dr. Elias Wirtham is preparing for his surgery, the
alarms at H.E.A.R.T. Clinic go off. As Dr. Elias Wirtham changes into
Cardiac, he notices the Spider-Tracer as Otto arrives. Otto demands that
Cardiac surrenders the Neurolitic Scanner which Cardiac refuses to do
so. This starts off a fight in the hospital. While Otto tries to fend
off the attacks, Cardiac tries to delay him but fails. Otto finds the
Neurolitic Scanner on Amy's head and even tries to retrieve it but Peter
refuses to allow him to do so until Cardiac manages to stop him. Otto
demands an explanation and Cardiac reveals that when Otto tried to kill
the planet with his Heat Satellites, he didn't considered about those
who were already sick like Amy (whose parents died in an accident caused
by his scheme) and she barely survived with severe brain damage. Otto
feels remorse for this and decides to help Cardiac with the surgery and
offers to perform the surgery himself. Even though Otto is having minor
afflictions with his hand, the surgery is a success. Cardiac thanks
Spider-Man for the help and Otto replies that he was wrong about him and
offers his help on anything which makes Cardiac allow Otto to borrow the
Neurolitic Scanner.

Dr. Wirtham oversees the operation of Aunt May's leg and tells her that
her leg is now fully healed upon completion of the surgery. When Otto
has plans to make artificial legs for Flash Thompson with him being the
first subject for this operation, Dr. Wirtham worries about some last
minute add-ins to the procedure. When the Superior Spider-Man gets
the Venom symbiote on him and gets it under his control, he knocks
Cardiac aside.

When the Goblin Underground is attacking Manhattan, Cardiac is seen
fighting the Goblin King's minions. While Cardiac was away fighting the
Goblin King's minions, the Goblin King has the H.E.A.R.T. Clinic blown
up.


Powers and abilities

Cardiac's heart has been surgically replaced with a compact
beta-particle reactor, which grants Cardiac power. He has the ability to
channel beta particles through the neural web of his vibranium-mesh skin
into his muscles thereby endowing him with superhuman strength and
regeneration, and enhanced speed, agility, reflexes and endurance, and
he can channel these particles through external objects (such as his
pulse staff and hang glider). He wields his pulse staff which fires
concussive force bolts in a distinctive pulse-like energy signature, and
rides a beta-propelled stingray hang-glider, which were both invented by
Wirtham and his associates. His vibranium-mesh skin is also able to
stop a couple bullet shots before the beta-particle energy is
depleted.

Dr. Elias Wirtham's business administrative skills provide him a strong
power base with a number of connections to various enterprises. He has
also earned an M.D. degree and is an accomplished physician and
surgeon.

