The CHALLENGER is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic
books published by . The character appeared beginning with
the company's 1940s iteration as Timely Comics during the period fans
and historians call the Golden Age of Comic Books.


Publication history

The Challenger first appeared in Daring Mystery Comics #7 (April 1941)
from  predecessor Timely Comics, debuting in both a
two-page text story, "The Valley of Time", by writer Ray Gill, and in
the 12-page comics story "Meet the Challenger", by an unknown writer and
artist George Klein, under the pseudonym "Nick Karlton". The
character went on to appear in Mystic Comics #6-10 (Oct. 1941 - Aug.
1942), in eight- to nine-page stories by artists including Al Bare and
Mike Sekowsky, and in at least one instance written by Stan Lee ("Horror
Mansion", Mystic Comics #9, May 1942).

The Challenger did not reappear for decades before making a brief
appearance in  Premiere #29 (April 1976), in a World War II
period story featuring the homefront superhero team the Liberty Legion.
The Challenger first appears in a modern-day story in She-Hulk #11
(March 2005), having "bounced forward" in time.


Fictional character biography

Former law student William "Bill" Waring, having traveled around the
world to learn skills needed to avenge his father's murder for turning
state's evidence over to the district attorney, dons a green costume
with a full face mask to become the World War II superhero the
Challenger.

Through unexplained circumstances, the Challenger "bounced forward" in
time to the present day, finding himself without assets, having been
presumed dead, and inquiring of the law firm Goodman, Lieber, Kurtzberg
& Holliway about reversing his will. The firm puts him in contact with
the superhero Captain America, who had found himself in a future era due
to suspended animation, for advice and assistance. He later becomes
part of the federal government's Fifty State Initiative of superhero
teams, joining the Montana group, Freedom Force.


Powers and abilities

Challenger is a master of weapons, jiu-jitsu, chemistry, and
swordsmanship. He is also a skilled marksman, boxer, and pilot. Through
Indian nerve-control training, the Challenger gained the superpower to
make himself immune to pain at will.

