CHARCOAL (CHARLIE BURLINGAME) is a fictional character appearing in
American comic books published by . The character has been
depicted as a member of the Thunderbolts and was created by a comic book
fan for a "Create-A-Villain" contest sponsored by  and Wizard
Magazine and the alter-ego was created by Kurt Busiek.


Publication history

Charcoal was created to be a villain, by means of a Wizard magazine
contest. However, Wizard Entertainment failed to establish certain
legal specifics in the language of their contest rules, leaving the
ownership of the character's copyright in question (Normally in such a
situation, steps would be taken to ensure that, unless otherwise stated,
such a character's copyright would legally belong to the comic's
publisher). Furthermore, Wizard Entertainment reportedly failed to
provide the contest winner with other prizes promised along with the
winning character's appearance in a . Feeling
undercompensated, Charcoal's creator attempted to legally claim the
copyright for the character from . Meanwhile, writer Fabian
Nicieza had decided to kill off Charcoal and resurrect him later on.
Because of the legal issues,  told Nicieza it "wasn't worth"
bringing the character back.


Fictional character biography

Charles "Charlie" Burlingame's father Calvin moved around a great deal
and had trouble finding work, until he attended a rally of the Imperial
Forces of America. Calvin joined that organization and took his son with
him. Arnim Zola, working for the Imperial Forces, discovered that
Charlie possessed the genetic potential to develop superhuman powers and
facilitated the youngster's transformation into Charcoal the Burning
Man. As part of a group called the Bruiser Brigade, Charcoal fought the
Thunderbolts as an enemy, but joined the team soon after.

He was subsequently killed in battle with Graviton.


Power and abilities

Charlie Burlingame can transform into a being seemingly composed of
charcoal. He has the ability to manipulate heat and reshape himself into
any carbon form, including flaming incendiary or rock-hard diamond. He
could use his flaming form to fly. He could sense the location of any
tiny broken off piece of himself, allowing him to plant tracers on
opponents and follow them.

