CHASE STEIN (also known as TALKBACK), is a fictional character, a
superhero in the  Runaways. He was created by author
Brian K. Vaughan & artist Adrian Alphona, and debuted in Runaways vol.
1 #1 with most of the other main characters. Like every member of the
original Runaways, he is the son of evil villains with special
abilities; in Chase's case, mad scientists. Chase is often regarded
as the "wild card" in the series, due to his often changing role in the
group, from being the getaway guy and technical guru to the "loose
cannon" after he departed the group for a short while. However,
despite his rule-breaking persona, Chase is fiercely loyal to his
friends and remains a valued member of the team. Chase is the eldest
of the Runaways at age 18. Chase shares a psychic and empathic link
with deinonychus Old Lace, granting him the ability to command the
dinosaur to do his bidding and also possesses the Fistigons, the
world's most powerful gauntlets.


Publication history

Chase Stein first appeared in Runaways # 1 (July, 2003) and was
created by Brian K. Vaughan and Adrian Alphona.

Chase Stein is appearing in Avengers Arena, written by Dennis Hopeless
and illustrated by Kev Walker.


Fictional character biography

The Pride

The son of Victor and Janet Stein, Chase is first seen taking a punch
from his abusive father for getting straight C's and being a "dumb
athlete"; after the witnessing of the murder of an innocent girl by
their parents ("the Pride"), Chase appears not to be surprised, though
blames everyone else's parents for the murder. Chase joins the team
in the mass ransack to escape from their respective homes. While going
through Chase's parents' homes, he discovers that his parents are mad
scientists, with many technological advances. Chase steals the
Fistigons, which Janet Stein calls "the world's strongest gloves".
Able to conjure and mold fire with the gloves, Chase also steals the
special X-ray goggles from his parents. The Fistigons are later
destroyed, giving Chase the role of "getaway guy". Chase provides
the Runaways with their first hideout, a dilapidated caved-in mansion he
called "the Hostel," and their first transport, his white, unmarked van
with stolen license plates. After running off, Chase wishes to
take the name Neo, but Gert calls him Talkback, a reference to his
defiant nature. It is later revealed Janet's pregnancy with Chase
prompted the remaining Pride to have kids, and to give them eternal life
in continuing the Pride.

Personality

When Chase first confronts his parents (in their scientific
villain-attire), Chase remains defiant and unafraid of his parents,
firmly establishing himself as the most rebellious and reckless of the
group, a trait he carries for the rest of Brian K. Vaughan's initial run
on the title. Chase is portrayed as having a free, reckless spirit,
shown when he purposely repeatedly crashes the Leapfrog.

Chase is known for having a temper; after the death of Gert, Chase
leaves the team for a time, with the intention of resurrecting Gert in
exchange for selling his own life. The search for Victor Mancha ends
up being personal for him, to kill the one person who'd be destined to
murder Gert. Chase also mentions he had murdered someone in the
past, and refuses to talk about it. An associate to the Kingpin
describes him as being simple, despite his scientific pedigree.

Chase seems to be a devout Christian - when attacked by Old Lace, he
recites The Lord's Prayer, and he later refers to the Devil as a real
being. He also called Karolina an angel after her alien origins are
revealed.

As a fugitive

Since the Fistigons and X-ray goggles were destroyed, Chase resumes his
"getaway guy" role as the Leapfrog pilot in the second volume. In a
relationship with Gert, Chase is able to comfort Nico over the loss of
Karolina; two issues later, Nico kisses him, straining their
relationship. When a new incarnation of the Pride reveals Chase and
Nico's kiss to Gert, she ends up hurt, angered, and the resulting
friction almost tears the Runaways apart and seriously wears on Chase,
but the group reconciles in time to rescue Molly. After Gert's death,
Chase departs the Runaways for a short period, but he is convinced to
return, after turning eighteen. Chase strikes a deal with the
Gibborim to exchange one innocent soul for Gert's life and eventually
settles on sacrificing himself, viewing his life as worthless compared
to Gert's. This deal fails to please the Gibborim, as going through with
this removed Chase's 'innocent' status. Chase is saved from making a
dire mistake, and is gratefully allowed to return after learning that
his grief nearly destroyed all his friends.

Homecoming

In Runaways Vol. 3 #7, the Runaways pay little attention to Chase's
opinions, prompting Chase to question his role on the team. In
Runaways Vol. 3 #9, the last issue to have been written by Terry
Moore, features Chase acting as an older brother to Molly and Klara.
Moore had wanted this storyline to heavily focus on Chase's relationship
with the team, and identifies him as "a kid who "will grow up to
become the next Captain America."

In Runaways Vol. 3 #11, the first issue written by Kathryn Immonen and
drawn by Sara Pichelli, Chase, Nico, Victor and Karolina hold a house
prom. An outside source manages to send a UAV flying into the Runaways'
Malibu home, in the upstairs living room where Klara and Old Lace lie.
Nico, Victor and Karolina rush to save Klara and Old Lace - upon
arriving at the top, however, it's revealed that Old Lace had shielded
Klara, who ends up alive. Old Lace, however, dies. Chase, feeling her
death because of their link, falls into a slump and repeatedly mutters
an apology for Gert. In Runaways Vol. 3 #12 Chase encounters a man
claiming to be his (paternal) uncle Hunter Stein. Chase believes the man
is lying because he remembers killing his uncle and driving off. Not
long thereafter, Chase makes the error of following a girl resembling
Gertrude, and is hit by a car, ending up in the hospital. However, he is
shown in S.W.O.R.D. #2 alive and well with the group in Los Angeles. It
is later revealed that the other Runaways are aware of Chase being hit
by a car, but he apparently did not reveal to them further details of
what happened.

When Daken, the psychopathic son of Wolverine invades the Runaways'
home, Chase knocks him out with his gloves.

Chase began having dreams about Old Lace, but soon began sensing her
presence in his waking hours. He asked Nico to try and find and
discovers that Old Lace was sent to a different dimension as a result of
Nico's spell to put her to rest. Chase led the Runaways to the Avengers
Academy to receive help from Giant-Man and Reptil. After a brief
skirmish, the two teams join forces to open a portal and find Old Lace
in a prehistoric dimension.

Avengers Arena

Chase and Nico are later abducted by Arcade and placed into an arena
with other young heroes where they are forced to fight to the death.
The two try to form an alliance with Hazmat, Reptil and X-23, reasoning
that they can work together to find a way to escape. The alliance soon
dissolves after an unknown party frames Chase for an attack on Reptil.
While fleeing, Chase finds the amulet that belonged to the presumably
deceased superhero Darkhawk. The amulet attaches itself to Chase's
body and transforms him into the new Darkhawk. He was then possessed
by Apex in his Darkhawk armor, resulting in him cutting off Nico's arm
and causing her death. When the Staff of One resurrects Nico, it
increases her power level enough to destroy the Darkhawk armor and
defeat Apex. Chase returns to his normal self and then helps Nico
and Reptil fight a possessed Cullen. In the ensuing battle, Nara is
killed returning Cullen to human form and Anachronism goes wild. Reptil
asks Nico and Chase for help breaking up the fight, but Nico insists she
and Chase stay out of it. At Nico's command, Chase then turns into
Darkhawk and sucker-punches Reptil as part of some secret plan that he
and Nico devised. Chase showed regret at having to attack Reptil.
When Chase refused to let Cammi stop Nico, she broke his arm and leg,
taking the Darkhawk amulet for herself in order to stop Nico from
killing everyone. Cammi gives Chase the amulet again when Apex
unleashes bugs, sentient typhoon, and weaponized sand to attack the
remaining teens on Murderworld. Soon after, Deathlocket stops the
fight by killing Apex, and everyone is able to escape Murderworld and
disperse.

Avengers Undercover

Once news broke about Arcade's kidnappings, Chase and the other Murder
World Survivors became infamous. Unlike the others, Chase has gone
public, opening up his story to several talk shows, much to Nico's
chagrin. Chase now has shaved most of his head in favor of a mohawk,
has gotten his ears pierced, and constantly wears sunglasses. However,
when Cammi and Anachronism reveal that Bloodstone has gone missing, all
the survivors team up to head to Bagalia to find him. Once they do, he
reveals that he enjoys life among the villains, and the others, minus
Cammi, start to enjoy it as well. When Cammi tries to tell the others to
leave, Bloodstone instead has Daimon Hellstrom teleport the group to
Arcade's latest party so they can kill him.

After Hazmat seemingly kills Arcade, the group decides to infiltrate
Bagalia by pretending to join Baron Zemo's Masters of Evil, excluding
Deathlocket who they never had a chance to inform of the plan. On a
mission to A.I.M. Island, Deathlocket has a chance to shoot Captain
America. When she tries to take the shot, Chase tries to talk some sense
into her by having her "choose who she is fighting for." Excavator gets
into a scuffle with Chase. Deathlocket tries to get them to stop and
finally opens up her arm canon and shoots Chase in the chest, seriously
wounding him. Though Nico is able to cast a "Fix him" spell to heal
his body, he remains in a coma.

He is next seen, apparently fully recovered, enjoying some vacation time
on a lake with the rest of the group in the final issue of the
series.


Powers and abilities

[Chase makes a very literal firewall in Runaways volume 1, issue 14.
Art by Adrian Alphona.]

Weapons

In the first volume, Chase stole telescopic X-ray goggles and the
Fistigons from his parents' secret laboratory. The X-ray goggles
allowed Chase to see through clothing, walls, and even through miles of
rock. The Fistigons were metal gauntlets with built-in
flamethrowers. The gloves allowed the wearer to mentally shape the
produced flame into any form the wearer desired. Before the final
fight with their parents, Chase nearly drowned and was too weak to go
on. He gave the Fistigons and X-ray goggles to Alex, who subsequently
betrayed the team to their parents. Nico used the Staff of One to
magically destroy the gauntlets while he was still wearing them, and
the X-ray goggles were incinerated with Alex by the Gibborim. Chase
has been known to use the Leapfrog (a frog-like land & sea transport
designed by his parents, but mother's idea.) and a switchblade.

Before Gert's death, she transferred telepathic control of Old Lace to
Chase. He now shares an empathic link with the dinosaur, so both
suffer from one another's injuries and benefit when the other heals.
Chase and Old Lace's minds are also directly connected so the dinosaur
can telepathically communicate thoughts and feelings to her master.
Old Lace is engineered to follow Chase's every mental command though she
can express dissatisfaction; to date, Old Lace has directly disobeyed
only one of Chase's orders and was able to only with Karolina's
help. Chase has also used Nico's Staff of One against Nico.
Chase uses a time machine later in the series to travel through time. He
returns shortly afterward with newly built Fistigons of his own design;
to protect the team from the Yorkes' by conjuring fire and electricity
to defeat them. And then protects the Leapfrog from a barrage of
missiles by using the Fistigons to shoot out missiles of their own.
In addition it was revealed that most of his father's devices are
protected against magic, though obviously the first pair were not. In
promotional art for upcoming Runaways issues, Chase is shown with a
pair of rocket boots. In Runaways v3 #5, he calls them "the
Footstigons".

During the events of Avengers Arena, Chase obtained Darkhawk's powers,
as the original owner was separated from the amulet. At the series' end,
Chase returned the amulet to its original owner.


Relationship with other Runaways

Gert

Gert dated Chase from Runaways volume 1, issue 16 to Runaways volume
2, issue 18. Their relationship was often defined by bickering -
Chase's dim-witted moments often clashed with Gert's sarcastic and
intelligent quips. Gert's relationship with Chase softened her somewhat,
though she did not entirely lose her sarcastic edge. Their relationship
developed quickly, with a few off-hand comments suggesting that they
shared the same bed and were sexually intimate. However, their
relationship was threatened when Gert learned that Nico had kissed
Chase; though Chase rebuffed Nico's advances, Gert was still hurt that
Chase had kept the interaction hidden from her. She revealed her
insecurity about her appearance and fear that Chase would eventually
leave her for a more conventionally pretty girl. Though implying she
was hurt beyond reconciliation, she still ran into a burning building to
save Chase from Geoffrey Wilder after their falling out. She bluffed
some details about Chase's past to keep Geoffrey from sacrificing Chase
and Geoffrey fell for the bluff, but plunged his dagger into Gert's
stomach instead. As she lay dying, she transferred control of Old
Lace to Chase and died forgiving Chase for Nico's kiss and without
finishing saying she loved him.

Molly

Ever since the beginning of the series, Molly and Chase engage in a big
brother/little sister relationship: they bicker, call each other names,
and joke around. Chase had always stood up to protect Molly.
After Gert's death, Chase's relationship with Molly turns into one of
pure anger, prompting Chase to say in Civil War: Young
Avengers/Runaways "Molly why don't you $&!?ing grow up?!" Their
relationship is repaired by the end of the story arc when Chase
expresses jealousy over Molly's growing attachment to the Young Avenger
Speed, who tells him at the end of the story that no matter what, Molly
looks up to him.

Nico

Nico provides the motherly and leadership foil for Chase's rule-breaking
persona. The pair maintain a strong respect for each other despite often
disagreeing over major group decisions, including Gert's burial site and
allowing Victor Mancha to join the team. Chase cares for Nico's safety
and well-being, as evidenced from when he comforted Nico after
Karolina's departure and later when he took the Staff of One from Nico
to destroy it (along with himself) and give her a normal life. Nico and
Chase shared a kiss after Chase bluffed their way out of a potentially
fatal encounter with inter-dimensional drug lord Pusher Man and managed
to get a customer's name from the drug lord. Chase rejected the kiss but
did not make a huge deal of it, even though Nico treated him more as an
employee instead of a friend after the incident. After Gert's death,
Chase and Nico's friendship strained as he allowed anger and grief to
isolate him (both physically and emotionally) from the group's support.
Nico was also the only person that Chase bid farewell before leaving to
sacrifice himself for the Gibborim, which Nico interpreted as a cry for
help, and is presumably a signal of the level of trust and respect Chase
holds for Nico. In Joss Whedon's stint on Runaways, Chase and Nico's
friendship appears more stable now that Chase seems to have moved past
grieving for Gert. Their relationship became strained when Chase acted
out frequently during Terry Moore's run on the series. However, their
relationship stabilized and during Kathryn Immonen's run they were close
once again. Especially, following the "death" of Old Lace, the two
rekindled their relationship and shared an implied romantic moment to
help then relieve their tension. Both were later kidnapped by Arcade and
participated in the Avenger's Arena.

Victor Mancha

Victor's alternate future self, Victorious, managed to fatally wound an
alternate version of Gert before she came to the past and warned the
Runaways of the looming threat; the future Gert died in Chase's arms.
Her death made locating Victor personal for Chase, as he sought to
prevent his current girlfriend's murder. He disagreed vehemently with
Nico about letting Victor stay with the team, even after Nico stated she
was prepared to kill Victor if necessary. As such, Chase has tried to
distance himself from Victor, despite the cyborg's attempts to prove
himself. Chase did admit to Victor that he envies Victor more than hates
him, primarily because Victor is the son Chase believes his parents
wanted (he even has the same name as Chase's father). By the end of
Brian K. Vaughan's stint on Runaways, Chase and Victor had switched
roles: Victor stood by the team without hesitation while a grief-ridden
Chase carried out his own agenda without regards to the team's safety.
Victor even questioned Nico when she admitted Chase back into the group
as Chase questioned Victor's membership earlier, yet Nico's response
remained the same as it was when Victor asked it: if Chase went rogue
again, she would not hesitate to kill him.

Victor Stein

The first time the Stein family appears, Victor Stein punches Chase in
the face and berates him for getting bad grades. A few issues later, it
is implied that Chase's father regularly hits him—when Alex informs
Chase that Victor attacked Chase with one of his inventions, Chase
replies "What else is new? I probably had it coming."

In volume two, Chase tells Nico that he's evil, and implies that he once
killed someone who tried to carjack his van (this as it turns out is his
uncle Hunter, whom he accidentally hit and killed with his car).
However, after Gert's death Chase realizes he is not evil. He admits
that his mother allowed his father to abuse him, and because none of his
dad's reasons for hitting him ever seemed good enough, Chase started
making up reasons and convincing himself they were true.


Alternate Versions

In the storyline What if the Runaways had formed the Young Avengers?,
Chase is badly injured by Victorious when he travels into the past to
confront the Young Avengers- the Runaways having reformed as this team
after Iron Lad witnessed Victorious's future while travelling into the
past, but he is able to save himself by using Iron Lad's armor to keep
his damaged heart beating.


Conceptual changes

In Brian K. Vaughan's original pitch for the series, Chase was
originally called John. The relationship Chase has with Molly in the
comics was also originally given to Gert.


In Other Media

-   Chase will appear as a playable character in Lego 's
    Avengers

