CHRISTOPHER BRADLEY, formerly known as BOLT and MAVERICK, is a fictional
character appearing in American comic books published by ,
in particular those featuring the X-Men. He is a young mutant who first
appeared in X-Men Unlimited #8.


Fictional character biography

Legacy Virus

Chris Bradley was first introduced as a young boy who began suffering
from increasingly painful headaches. The headaches resulted from his
electrical mutant powers, which manifested and grew out of control in
the middle of a class at school, leaving him unconscious. He was rescued
by Jean Grey and Gambit, who had been sent by Professor Xavier to keep
an eye on him and approach him should his powers reveal themselves.
After taking him home, the X-Men offered him training at the Xavier
Institute for Higher Learning. At first Chris was reluctant, but after
being shunned by his best friend, agreed to join the school.

Chris spent several weeks at the school, quickly developing close
friendships with the X-Men, particularly Iceman, whose own youthful
personality seemed to connect well with Chris'. However, when the Beast
ran a medical test on Chris, it was revealed that he was infected with
the Legacy Virus, which would eventually kill him. Chris was afraid of
what his future would hold, but Iceman and the other X-Men offered him
aid should he ever need it.

During the "X-Men: Zero Tolerance" storyline, in which the mutant hating
Bastion began to target the X-Men, they lost touch with Chris. This left
Bradley hurt with feelings of abandonment, particularly as his illness
was growing steadily worse.

New Warriors/Bolt

He soon found a mentor in Maverick who was also suffering from the
Legacy Virus. Chris stayed with him for a while before joining the
New Warriors. After the break-up of his New Warriors team, he teamed up
again with Maverick.

Maverick

When Maverick disappeared and was believed dead, Bolt took the Maverick
alias for himself and joined the Underground, a group founded by Cable
to battle Weapon X and expose its existence. Following the group's
defeat, Chris remained in the Underground, though it was taken over by
Marrow and remade into a new incarnation of the extremist mutant
supremacist group Gene Nation. Chris did not leave as he wanted to
undermine Gene Nation from within and preventing its terrorist attacks,
though he was ultimately killed by his former mentor himself, now
bearing the codename "Agent Zero", who did not find out Chris had been
the new Maverick until it was too late. Ironically, disgusted by Agent
Zero and not wanting to know his true identity, Chris died in his arms,
stating that he took on Maverick's persona in order to ensure that his
mentor's name would live on and that he wanted his mentor to be proud of
him.

Necrosha

Chris is later resurrected by means of the Transmode Virus to serve as
part of Selene's army of deceased mutants. Under the control of Selene
and Eli Bard, he takes part in the assault on the mutant nation of
Utopia.


Powers and abilities

Chris could absorb ambient charges of static electricity from the
atmosphere and was also able to absorb electricity from
electricity-generating sources to empower himself. Typically, Chris’
body harmlessly expended this energy; however, he was able to store and
release it for a variety of effects, an ability he primarily manifested
as devastating electrical blasts which he fired from his hands, but he
could surround himself with an energy shield that shocks anyone who
touches, conduct electricity through metal objects, or short-circuit
electronic devices as well. When he fully powered up his body was
surrounded by a blazing aura that obscured his features, giving him the
appearance of a being composed of electricity, which appears as blue
flames. When he originally manifested his powers he surrounded his
entire high school in a massive electrical field, but has not shown that
level of power since, ever since being cured of the Legacy Virus (which
boosts mutant power levels while it kills them).


In other media

Film

-   Dominic Monaghan plays Chris Bradley / Bolt in the 2009 film X-Men
    Origins: Wolverine. Bradley is not mentored by David North, but is
    his teammate. Bradley is a part of Team X, alongside James Howlett,
    Victor Creed, Agent Zero, Fred Dukes, John Wraith and Wade Wilson,
    and is led by Col. William Stryker. He has the ability to remotely
    control and power anything electric, and in that capacity pilots the
    airplane that transports him and his teammates, he also has the
    ability to send and receive radio transmissions telepathically. Six
    years after the events in Africa, Bradley works in a circus in
    Springfield, Ohio. He is visited by Victor Creed, who kills him in
    his trailer causing all electronic hardware to shut down in the
    surrounding area. Bradley's electrical capabilities are later used
    for the mutant killer Weapon XI/Deadpool, specifically so that
    Stryker can completely control Deadpool from a computer. Bradley
    speaks with Monaghan's own English accent, which differs from the
    comics origin of the character as an American from Dutchess County,
    New York.

Video Games

-   In the movie-tie in game X-Men Origins: Wolverine, Bradley doesn't
    appear on screen but is mentioned in a Weapon X weblog, stating that
    Stryker was disappointed in his former team's whereabouts.

