CLOAK (TYRONE "TY" JOHNSON) and DAGGER (TANDY BOWEN) are a fictional
comic book superhero duo appearing in American comic books published by
. They were created by writer Bill Mantlo and artist Ed
Hannigan. In April 2016,  Television announced that the duo would
appear in their own television show.


Concept and creation

The inspiration for Cloak and Dagger came to Bill Mantlo after a visit
to Ellis Island. He recounted, "They came in the night, when all was
silent and my mind was blank. They came completely conceived as to their
powers and attributes, their origin and motivation. They embodied
between them all that fear and misery, hunger and longing that had
haunted me on Ellis Island."

Ed Hannigan, Mantlo's artist collaborator on Peter Parker, the
Spectacular Spider-Man, recalled that he and Mantlo jointly came up
with the characters' visual design: "Bill had a short page or two
synopsis of the story that he showed me, and we discussed what the
characters would look like. He gave me a lot of leeway, but it was
fairly obvious that Cloak would be black and have a big ‘animated’ black
cloak and Dagger would be white with a skintight leotard-type thing. I
am not sure, but I think I might have come up with her ballet angle. I
put the same kind of amulet/clasp on both costumes and came up with the
dagger-shaped cutout on her costume, which was quite daring at the
time."


Publication history

Cloak and Dagger first appeared in Peter Parker, the Spectacular
Spider-Man #64 (March 1982). After a number of additional Spider-Man
guest appearances, they were given their own four-issue limited series,
written by creator Bill Mantlo, penciled by Rick Leonardi, and inked by
Terry Austin. It debuted in October 1983 and was a success, prompting
 to launch an ongoing bi-monthly Cloak and Dagger series in
1985, with the same creative team. Costumed supervillains rarely
appeared in the series, which focused on Cloak and Dagger's quest to end
the drug trade completely and frequently explored the issue of
vigilantism. Leonardi left after issue #6 and was replaced by a
series of fill-in pencilers.

After issue #11,  combined the bi-monthly titles Cloak and
Dagger and Doctor Strange into a monthly double-feature series,
Strange Tales. The title change was accompanied by Bret Blevins
stepping in as both penciler and inker. Austin would shortly return, but
as the series writer this time, Mantlo having ended his run with issue
#6. Though still successful, Cloak and Dagger's sales had been
declining for some time, and 's editorial staff felt that a new
writer was needed in order to revitalize the characters. Austin
immediately introduced Cloak and Dagger's first nemesis, Mister Jip. In
1988, they starred in  Graphic Novel #34: Cloak and Dagger:
Predator and Prey, which was written by Mantlo before his departure
from the series. Strange Tales ran 19 issues before  decided to
split Cloak and Dagger and Dr. Strange back into separate bi-monthly
titles.

Cloak and Dagger, now retitled The Mutant Misadventures of Cloak and
Dagger, were by this point being written by Austin and penciled by Mike
Vosburg. Dagger was rendered blind in the first issue, and her struggles
to deal with this new disability were a major theme of the series.
Austin did extensive research at the American Foundation for the Blind
so he could give an authentic depiction of the physical and
psychological impacts of going blind and the coping techniques used by
blind people. Both Austin and Vosburg were gone by issue #14.
Subsequent issues were variously written by Steve Gerber and/or Terry
Kavanagh, but sales began to falter and the series was canceled with
issue #19 (essentially the 49th issue of the series, since publication
did not pause for the relaunches as Strange Tales and The Mutant
Misadventures of Cloak and Dagger).

The pair continued to make numerous appearances as guest stars in titles
such as Runaways and the Spider-Man Maximum Carnage story arc, as well
as starring in their own adventures in anthology titles like 
Comics Presents. Cloak made a solo appearance in issues of the
miniseries House of M, as a member of an underground human resistance
movement. It was uncertain if Dagger also existed in the altered reality
of House of M as there were no mentions of her during that storyline.

They have appeared in various other  Universes, in one of which
Cloak was killed. Dagger also served as a member of  Knights
in a short running mini-series.

It was announced at the 2008 San Diego Comic Con that the team would be
reappearing once again in their own 5-part mini-series by writer Valerie
D'Orazio, with pencils by Irene Flores and colors by Emily
Warren.

They appeared in the Dark Avengers/Uncanny X-Men crossover, "Utopia".
"They're here presented with a chance to have their reputations
exonerated and their records sealed [if they join the Dark X-Men]," Matt
Fraction explained in an interview with .com. "Osborn presents it
to them as the ultimate public service, [where] they can work off their
past indiscretions—[such as] Cloak's dealings with the Avengers during
the [Skrull] invasion." Fraction claimed the more appealing part of
Dark X-Men was to see how Cloak and Dagger react in a real superhero
team scenario.

During the Secret Wars event of 2015, Noelle Stevenson and Sanford
Greene created a spin-off series based on Runaways.


Fictional character biography

Origin

Tyrone "Ty" Johnson (Cloak) and Tandy Bowen (Dagger) met in New York
City as runaways. Tyrone was a 17-year-old boy from Boston,
Massachusetts with a debilitating stutter and ran away to New York City
when his speech impediment prevented him from stopping his friend from
being shot by police, who mistakenly believed he had just robbed a
store. Tandy was a 16-year-old girl from a privileged upbringing (born
in Shaker Heights, Ohio) who ran away because her multi-millionaire
supermodel mother was too busy with her career and social life to spend
time with her daughter. When they met, Tyrone considered stealing
Tandy's purse, but before he could, a thief stole the purse and Tyrone
retrieved it for her. Afterwards, they had dinner and became fast
friends. When naïve Tandy accepted an offer of shelter from some strange
men, wary Tyrone went along to protect her. The two teens were soon
forcibly delivered to criminal chemist Simon Marshall developing a new
synthetic heroin for Silvermane and the Maggia, testing it on runaway
teens with fatal results. Johnson and Bowen somehow survived injections
of the drug, and they fled. During their escape, the drug turned them
into superpowered beings (this is later retconned that they were
both actually mutants and that the drug had simply awakened their latent
abilities). Tyrone found himself engulfed in darkness and seized by
a strange hunger which eased in the presence of Tandy glowing with a
brilliant light. Trying to hide his newly shadowy appearance in a
makeshift cloak, Tyrone began absorbing Marshall's thugs into his
darkness while Tandy struck them down with daggers of light. The two
teens dubbed themselves "Cloak & Dagger" and declared war on drug crime
in combating drug-dealers and helping runaway children.

Later it was revealed that during this time, D'Spayre had manipulated
these events from behind the scenes.

War on Drugs and other heroes

Cloak and Dagger became vigilantes and hunted and killed Simon Marshall
and his drug-dealing henchmen responsible for activating their powers.
They first encountered Spider-Man during these events. They next
murdered Silvermane in revenge, and battled his reanimated cyborg
form. They next teamed with Spider-Man to thwart the Punisher's
murder attempt on the Kingpin.

[Cloak and Dagger on the cover of New Mutants #23 (January 1985). Art
by Bill Sienkiewicz.] When their activities became too damaging for the
illegal drug trade, some dealers kidnapped members of the New Mutants
and tried to control them by injecting them with a drug similar to that
which gave the duo their powers. For a time, they lost their powers to
the heroes Sunspot and Wolfsbane but they cooperated in retrieving them
when it was learned the others were not handling it well. Cloak and
Dagger saved them with Spider-Man, but turned down an offer to join the
X-Men's School for Gifted Youngsters. Cloak and Dagger battled
Silvermane and the Answer. Kingpin wanted Dagger to help heal his wife,
but Dagger refused to help him. Cloak & Dagger befriended the
superpowered preteens Power Pack and twice aided the New Mutants,
junior trainees of the X-Men. The duo eventually learned they were
mutants themselves, which is also the reason why they were the only test
subjects to survive the administration of the drug in the first
place. Though they tend to target ordinary street criminals, they
have faced such diverse foes as Doctor Doom, the Beyonder, Vermin, the
Zapper, the Disciplinarian, the Warlord of Kampuchea, Mephisto, Thanos,
The Assembly of Evil, Firebrand, and Lightmaster.

Cloak and Dagger encountered the Beyonder during Secret Wars II.
They also encountered Mayhem, a police officer who had gained powers
from illegal drugs similarly to what had been done to them. They
next encountered Doctor Doom in Latveria. Alongside Doctor Strange,
they battled Ecstasy. They were used in Nightmare's plot to defeat
Doctor Strange. They battled Mister Jip, and Night and Day. They
also encountered Power Pack again.

Dagger was later possessed by Night, and battled X-Factor, and lost her
sight temporarily. Cloak and Dagger battled Hydro-Man, the second
Jester, the Hulk android, Rock, and Fenris alongside the Avengers.
Dagger later regained her sight, and helped defeat Mister Jip. Cloak
later unknowingly met his twin sister. Cloak and Dagger later
battled D'Spayre, learning that he gave them their Dark Form and Light
Form, which had been pieces of his soul, which interfered with their
natural mutations.

Dagger was one of the 'seven brides' selected for the serpent god Set in
the Atlantis Attacks crossover storyline, the other six being Jean Grey,
the Invisible Woman, Andromeda, She-Hulk, Storm, and the Scarlet
Witch.

Cloak and Dagger played a small part in the Infinity Gauntlet saga.
When Thanos used the power of the Infinity Gauntlet to sacrifice half of
the population of the universe to Death, Dagger was among the
superheroes that vanished. Cloak answered the summons of Adam Warlock to
join a task force of the remaining superheroes to fight Thanos.
During the assault on Thanos by the assembled team, Cloak managed to
pull Thanos into the Darkforce Dimension, but was killed when Thanos
released a massive amount of energy from within him; all that was left
were pieces of his cloak. His life was restored after most of the events
were undone by Nebula after she seized the Infinity Gauntlet.

The two tended to live in churches, supported by friends and priests.
Cloak has run away many times, not understanding that Dagger is fully
willing to use her light power to satisfy his darkness. Cloak & Dagger
are devoted to each other, but Dagger often wants more from life. While
on an international case, Tandy performed with Eurocirque as Lady Light
and shared a romance with a supposed stowaway on a drug boat.
Eventually he was exposed as a criminal but ultimately sacrificed
himself to save Dagger. Tandy found new friends in the New Warriors
who teamed with Cloak, Dagger, and other heroes to defeat the
shadow-lunatic Darkling. She also joined the team for a brief
period, leading to further tension with Cloak.

"Maximum Carnage"

Cloak and Dagger teamed with Spider-Man, Captain America, Black Cat,
Nightwatch, Iron Fist, Deathlok, Morbius, Venom, and Firestar to halt a
murderous super villain rampage led by serial killer Carnage. Dagger was
supposedly killed by Shriek (Carnage's "wife") while saving an injured
Spider-Man, but was later revealed to be severely wounded and
recuperating within Cloak's shroud, and was the key instrument in
breaking up the Carnage 'family'.

 Knights

After Tyrone leaves Tandy's side, he is no longer able to control his
hunger and consumes any and every lawbreaker, no matter how small the
offense. While searching for him in churches she meets the Black Widow
who she teams up with to prevent a church from being robbed. Daredevil
later appears and both assist him on a mission he received from the
Punisher.

Dagger becomes a member of the now-defunct " Knights" team,
partnering up with many different heroes, including Shang-Chi, Luke
Cage, Moon Knight and Daredevil. During her time with the Knights,
Dagger developed a deep friendship with the Black Widow (Natasha
Romanova). Natasha brings Tandy to the guidance of Dr. Strange in the
hopes of finding a crazed Tyrone. The  Knights and Dr. Strange
locate and battle an enhanced and deranged Cloak, during which most of
the group are absorbed into his cape. Dr. Strange reveals that
Dagger has become possessed by Nightmare. Tandy manages to overpower and
absorb Ty's Cloak powers, freeing everyone from his cape.

For some time, the Black Widow lets Ty and Tandy live in her apartment,
which was later attacked by a homicidal Life Model Decoy of Nick Fury.
Though at this point he was a normal human, Ty managed to defeat the
robot.

Runaways

Cloak and Dagger make their return in Runaways, in which Tyrone
appears repowered and stable. At one stage, the LAPD recruited the team
to locate the Runaways. During their initial encounter, Dagger quickly
knocked out Nico Minoru with her light and Cloak easily absorbed Chase
Stein, Karolina Dean, Alex Wilder, and Nico. Gertrude Yorkes was able to
halt Dagger's light attacks with her dinosaur Old Lace, as Dagger's
light had no effect on animals, and Molly Hayes managed to pull Cloak's
cloak from his body, severing his connection to the Darkforce Dimension.
This caused a ceasefire, during which time Gertrude and Molly explained
to Cloak and Dagger that the LAPD were actually corrupt and under the
control of the Runaways' supervillain parents, the Pride. Cloak managed
to reconnect to his cloak and rescue the Runaways he had absorbed, and
he and Dagger both promised to return to New York and bring back the
Avengers to stop the Pride and rescue the Runaways. However, the traitor
in the Runaways—Alex—instead contacted the LAPD, which had the Pride
erase Tandy's and Ty's actual memories of the group, thus preventing
them from helping the Runaways.

Cloak was later impersonated by Reginald Mantz who was using Mutant
Growth Hormone to replicate Cloak's powers. Mantz, stalked and attacked
Dagger, leaving her hospitalized. After a fight with the New Avengers,
Cloak regained his memories and requested the Runaways' assistance in
clearing his name, as he had been framed for attacking Dagger. Cloak
appealed to the fact that they all shared bonds in being runaways and
explains the reasons he and Dagger never helped them as planned. They
agreed to help, and successfully helped Cloak apprehend his impostor,
the delusional orderly, Reginald Mantz, who believed that he and Tandy
were in a relationship.

"Civil War"

Cloak and Dagger are revealed to be members of Captain America's faction
of super heroes who oppose the Superhuman Registration Act during the
"Civil War" storyline.

Cloak is shot by S.H.I.E.L.D. tranquilizers while teleporting Captain
America and the rebel faction to a chemical plant where they believed a
catastrophic accident had taken place. It turns out to be a trap set by
Iron Man waiting with the pro-registration faction. Dagger is hit with a
lightning attack by a clone of Thor.

It is then revealed that the pair were captured during a mission in
Queens and jailed in the Negative Zone prison. They are freed by the
shapeshifter Hulkling, who was disguised as the pro-registration Hank
Pym, which leads to the climactic battle between the two sides, both
of which Cloak teleports to Times Square, New York.

"Secret Invasion"

Luke Cage calls Cloak, who drops the New Avengers at the top of Stark
Tower to steal one of Tony Stark's quinjets. When Cage offers to take
him with them to find the downed Skrull ship, Cloak refuses, and
vanishes.

Dark X-Men and "Utopia"

Norman Osborn tracks down Tandy and Tyrone in Colombia, burning down
drug fields and approaches them to join his new team of X-Men. Initially
against it, as they know of Osborn's past and don't consider themselves
mutants, Osborn tells them that they can take their war on drugs to a
global scale as well as having no trouble with police anymore. Dagger
agrees to the deal for them both, but Cloak remains hesitant.

Cloak and Dagger are later recruited into the Dark X-Men by Osborn. On
their first mission, they take down Hellion, Sunspot, Match, Meld,
Lorelei Travis, Adam X, and Avalanche, who are protesting against
Osborn. After Emma Frost's and Namor's betrayal of the team, Emma
offers them the opportunity to join the real X-Men and their exodus from
the USA, to which both instantly agree. During their time with the
X-Men, Cloak becomes involved with Wolverine's plan to kill Romulus
along with Bruce Banner and Skaar. Dagger is kidnapped and Romulus
orders her to be beaten. Wolverine and Cloak manage to save her, and
Wolverine kills her kidnapper, much to her chagrin. However, she tells
Tyrone to continue helping Wolverine, as he needs his help. Aiding
Wolverine, Cloak uses his power to trap Romulus in the darkforce
dimension. However, Romulus later escapes and fights with Wolverine
and Cloak.

2010 Cloak and Dagger one-shot

After doing tests on Dagger, Dr. Nemesis confirms that they are not
mutants, disappointing her as she enjoyed being on a team. It is
revealed later that Tyrone was cheating on her with Tia, a girl from his
old neighborhood. Eventually, Tia reveals that she knows his secret
identity as Cloak and has him kidnapped, torturing him to keep him from
using his powers. Dagger becomes worried after he doesn't return home
after a few days and manages to track him down. With the help of X-Men
Anole and Dr. Nemesis, she fights off his captors whereupon Tia reveals
that she has powers as well and has been brainwashed to hate them. Tia
manages to escape the fight and Tandy and Tyrone decide to leave Utopia
and the X-Men and return to New York to work on rekindling their
relationship.

"Spider-Island"

They are featured in the "Spider-Man" storyline as being homeless as
they had just lost their home in New York because it wasn't up to code.
They then were confronted by the Avengers who informed them about the
present spider problem at hand. It's also revealed that Dagger is
attending college classes as an attempt to normalize her life. Cloak has
contradicting views as he acknowledges them as "special". After
Mister Negative hears of a prophecy that he destined to be killed by
Dagger, he kidnaps her and corrupts her with his negative touch; her
powers are changed, now working through the Dark Force. Similar to
Cloak, she gets the "hunger" for light and starts dying from the lack of
it. Cloak pleads with Mister Negative to give him the touch. He
surprisingly agrees, altering Cloak's abilities to be powered by light.
Cloak feeds Dagger his light, causing an explosion. In the aftermath it
is revealed that Dagger now has Cloak's original powers, and Cloak has
Dagger's. This change in powers recalls the reference to D'Spayre's
influence on their life, as according to him in the final issue of their
original run, these were the power sets they were always originally
meant to have, but D'Spayre interfered, resulting in Cloak and Dagger
having 'reversed' power sets, and considered weaker than what they would
have been had D'Spayre not gotten involved in their lives.

All-New, All-Different 

Following the Secret Wars storyline as part of the All-New,
All-Different  event, Cloak and Dagger have returned still with
the other's powers, but now evil due to the corruptive influence of
Mister Negative. Although Martin Li was arrested at some point, Cloak
and Dagger have been using Shade patches, which dose them with a drug
that stimulates the effects of Negative's touch to 'remain' loyal to
him, breaking him out of the prison ship where Li was being kept and
restoring him to Mister Negative to lead an assault on Parker Industries
in Japan. Although Peter is able to escape being corrupted by
Negative thanks to Negative's prior corruption of Spider-Man, Cloak and
Dagger manage to help Negative escape when Peter tracks them to his Hong
Kong headquarters by secretly placing a Spider-Tracer on Cloak.
Using this tracer, Peter is able to inject Cloak with a cure for Shade
that he later uses to cure Dagger, apparently restoring their original
powers. Although Mister Negative has escaped, Cloak and Dagger decide to
remain in Hong Kong to guard it from any future attacks.


Powers and abilities

Cloak

Tyrone acquired D'Spayre's Dark Form, which gave him the ability to
create an aperture into the dimension of darkness and to dispatch people
into the darkness dimension. He also gained the abilities of
intangibility, and the teleportation of himself and others through the
dimension of darkness. Cloak feels a constant "hunger" which can only be
assuaged by "feeding" either on light projected by Dagger or on light
consumed from victims dispatched to the dimension of darkness. He later
develops better control of his "hunger".

Dagger

Tandy had the ability to create psionic "light daggers" which travel
wherever she wills them, and which drain living beings of vitality when
struck. Her "light daggers" also have the capacity to cure certain
persons of drug addictions, and can alleviate Cloak's hunger for light
(which simultaneously allows her to avoid becoming overcharged).

Cloak and Dagger both have moderate experience at street-fighting, and
Dagger's combat techniques utilize her light powers and ballet dance
training, as well as her sense of spatial relations, which had been
heightened by her temporary blindness.

Spider Island

As noted above, Tyrone and Tandy swapped powers during
Spider-Island.


Mutants or mutates

Cloak and Dagger were considered latent mutants in earlier appearances,
whose powers were activated when they were injected with an experimental
illegal drug. In later years, they have been listed as mutates, meaning
that their powers were derived from an external mutagenic source. This
designation was used for them in the Civil War: Battle Damage Report.
Some mutants, such as Sunfire, Polaris, and Thunderbird, have also
required external stimuli to awaken their latent powers.

Uncanny X-Men writer Matt Fraction said, "No, they don't [think of
themselves as part of the mutant community], and that's the thing: in a
time when there are so few mutants left, can they afford to not at least
acknowledge the existence of this community, this family?" In the
Utopia crossover, when recruited by Norman Osborn as part of his "Dark
X-Men", Cloak and Dagger comment that they aren't mutants. This is
confirmed by Doctor Nemesis, who runs a full range of genetics scans on
Dagger, reporting that her powers were derived solely from the drug that
changed her and Cloak.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

In the "Age of Apocalypse" storyline, Cloak and Dagger are members of
Sinister's Six, who were brainwashed into fighting the X-Men. They were
apparently killed in battle though this has yet to be confirmed.

House of M

In the "House of M" storyline, Cloak appears as a member of the
Underground Human Resistance led by Luke Cage, regarding Cage as a
father figure. No mention of Dagger's whereabouts are made.

League of Losers

Dagger features in an arc of Robert Kirkman's  Team-Up vol. 3,
featuring a group of C-list heroes dubbed "The League of Losers". A
group of heroes including Darkhawk, Dagger, Araña, Gravity, X-23,
Sleepwalker, and Terror (although Araña dies along the way) go to the
future to prevent the villain Chronok from stealing Reed Richards' time
machine, Chronok having come to the present and already having killed
all of 's major heroes.

 Zombies

In  Zombies vs. The Army of Darkness Cloak and Dagger, both
zombified, are seen in a narrow alley devouring a hapless victim. In
Ultimate Fantastic Four #23, Cloak is seen as one of the dozens of
zombified heroes who have gathered together to hunt down and eat the
last four known unaffected people.

Spider-Ham parody

In the parody series Spider-Ham, the duo are parodied as CROAK AND
BADGER, a frog and a badger.

Ultimate 

A character named Tandy Bowen makes a cameo appearance as a teenager
running for and eventually succeeding in becoming school president.
She then appears as an anti-mutant who calls an anti-mutant task force
to arrest Kitty Pryde.

When Ronin stumbles into a police station to provide evidence against
the Kingpin, two women dressed as Cloak and Dagger are both in hanuffs
for an unknown offense.

The Ultimate  versions of Cloak (Ty Johnson) and Dagger (Tandy
Bowen) officially debut during a battle against Bombshell. A series
of flashbacks reveal that the two were high school sweethearts that were
critically injured in a car accident while on their way to their prom.
Roxxon's Brain Trust had the two teens declared legally dead and used
them as test subjects in an experiment involving dark matter, resulting
in Tandy and Ty gaining superpowers. Eventually, Cloak & Dagger as
well as Bombshell assist Spider-Man and Spider-Woman in fighting
Roxxon's Brain Trust as well as confronting Philip R. Roxxon. The
two later joined The Young Ultimates before the team disbanded.

Universe X

In the 2000 miniseries Universe X, Ty Johnson is dead, but his cloak
is still carried by Dagger. Mar-Vell is given the cloak by Dagger and
uses it as a teleportation device and a gateway to the Realm of the
Dead.

Battleworld Runaways

Cloak and Dagger are similar to what happened in Spider-Island, only
Tandy is Cloak instead of Dagger and Tyrone is Dagger instead of Cloak.
This alternate version of Cloak and Dagger are revealed to be siblings,
even when people mistake them to be a romantic couple.


Collected editions

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Title                                                 Material collected                                                           Year         ISBN
  ----------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------ ------
  Cloak & Dagger: Crime and Punishment                Peter Parker, the Spectacular Spider-Man (1972) 64, 69-70, 81-82, 94-96;   June, 2012   
                                                         Team-Up Annual 6;  Fanfare (1982) 19                                     

  Cloak & Dagger: Child of Darkness, Child of Light   Cloak & Dagger #1-4                                                        May, 2009    
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


In other media

Television

-   Joseph Loeb of  Television reported at Comic-Con 2011 that
    Cloak and Dagger are in development as a television series for ABC
    Family. The duo will be relocated to a post-Hurricane Katrina New
    Orleans. In April 2016, it was revealed that a live-action
    series was in development for Freeform, the new name of ABC
    Family. It is scheduled to air in 2017.

-   Cloak and Dagger appear in the third season of the Ultimate
    Spider-Man cartoon series, with Cloak voiced by Phil LaMarr and
    Dagger voiced by Ashley Eckstein. Cloak was possessed by
    Dormammu as part of a plot to capture Doctor Strange, Iron Fist, and
    White Tiger in a plot to power the Siege Perilous and invade Earth.
    With help from Dagger, Spider-Man was able to free Cloak from
    Dormammu's possession. Cloak and Dagger then help Spider-Man free
    Doctor Strange, Iron Fist, and White Tiger and defeat Dormammu. They
    were supposed to be two of Spider-Man's recruits for his new team of
    superhero "warriors". They originally turned down the offer, having
    been recruited by Taskmaster who claimed to Cloak and Dagger that no
    one can be trusted. In the episode "New Warriors", Cloak and Dagger
    appear as members of Taskmaster's Thunderbolts alongside Vulture
    where they end up freeing Green Goblin, Doctor Octopus, Beetle, and
    Scorpion from the Tri-Carrier's brig. Taskmaster had Cloak "thin the
    herd" by transporting Power Man, Iron Fist, White Tiger, and Nova to
    a deserted island. Cloak and Dagger switched sides after Spider-Man
    saved Cloak from the Tri-Carrier's engines after Taskmaster refuses
    and the two of them found out Taskmaster can not be trusted and
    joined Spider-Man's team by the end of the episode. In the episode
    "Ant-Man", they helped in the capture of an escaped Doctor Octopus.

Film

-   In 2006, Cloak and Dagger were chosen as one of the many properties
    in 's new film deal with Paramount Pictures, along with
    Captain America, Nick Fury, Doctor Strange, Hawkeye, Power Pack,
    Shang-Chi and Black Panther.

Video games

-   Cloak and Dagger both appear in the 1994 Spider-Man and Venom:
    Maximum Carnage video game, where they can be "summoned" by the
    player to harm all enemies on the screen.
-   Cloak and Dagger appear in : Ultimate Alliance 2, with Cloak
    voiced by Ahmed Best and Dagger voiced by America Young. Cloak is a
    non-player character and exclusive boss for the PlayStation 2, PSP
    and Wii versions, while Dagger is a boss for the Pro-Registration
    Act that attacks the heroes alongside Colossus.
-   Cloak and Dagger appear as non-player characters in  Heroes,
    with Cloak voiced by Rick D. Wasserman and Dagger voiced by Tara
    Strong.
-   Cloak and Dagger are playable as one entity in : Avengers
    Alliance.

Toys

-   In 1997, Toy Biz released a Cloak and Dagger 5" figure box set
    containing a "collector tin".
-   In September 2013,  Universe released Cloak and Dagger action
    figures in wave 23.

