COAL TIGER (PRINCE T'CHAKA II) is a fictional character appearing in
American comic books published by . The character appeared
in the MC2 series A-Next. He is the son of T'Challa, King of Wakanda
and the superhero known as Black Panther.


Fictional character biography

When a racist team of villains called the Soldiers of the Serpent
attacked T'Challa's friend N'Kano (who was on a diplomatic mission for
Wakanda in New York), A-Next tried to save him. As the Serpents battled
with the heroes of A-Next, T'Challa's son T'Chaka charged into battle.
While Mainframe tried to convince the youth to leave the battle, T'Chaka
shapeshifted into a feral black werecat called the "Coal Tiger". Coal
Tiger's bestial abilities were able to turn the tide in A-Next's favor.
He was offered membership with the team after the battle was won, but he
declined, stating that he would be available to help if they needed
him.

When all of the members of A-Next were captured by an evil version of
A-Next called the Revengers, Coal Tiger was one of the many heroes who
came to free the captured superheroes. When A-Next was freed and the
Revengers were defeated, Coal Tiger finally agreed to join the team.


Powers and abilities

Coal Tiger can change into a humanoid cat creature. In his feline form,
he has superhuman strength and agility, as well as enhanced senses and
retractable razor-sharp claws on his fingers and toes.


Other Coal Tigers

Coal Tiger is also the name of an alternate universe version of T'Challa
himself, who appeared in Avengers vol 1 #355 as a member of the
Gatherers, a group of former Avengers from different universes.

A Coal Tiger is mentioned in Captain America vol 1 #389 as an opponent
of the Zambian villainess Impala.

In Black Panther vol 3 #60, the Coal Tigers are mentioned as being a
rank in the Panther Cult.

The name "Coal Tiger" was one of several that Stan Lee and Jack Kirby
were bandying back and forth as a possible name for the character who in
mainstream continuity in the  Universe became Black Panther.


In other Media

While the character has never appeared, in Ultimate Avengers 2 the
powers of the Coal Tiger seemed to be part of the Panther line. Both
King T'Chaka and T'Challa transform into cat creatures during their
fights with Kleiser.

