Cold Blood}}

COLDBLOOD-7 (ERIC SAVIN) is a fictional character appearing in American
comic books published by . The character first appeared in
 Presents vol. 1 #26 (August 1989).


Fictional character biography

While still a Lieutenant Colonel in the United States Army at Camp
Killian, Eric Savin was put in charge of Project: Ultra-Tech. There he
met the love of his life, Lieutenant Gina Dyson. While on patrol, Savin
stepped onto a freshly planted mine which blew him into pieces. He was
dead for 2.3 minutes. Gina immediately performed cybernetic surgery on
him. The surgery was successful — Savin was alive, but resurrected as a
cyborg by Mako's Project: Ultra-Tech. His former lover Dyson aided him
in battling Mako and his robots and apparently slew Mako in combat.
The "7" in Coldblood's original name was stated to be a mere wordplay on
Coldblood's real name as his surname is pronounced in the same way.

Coldblood became an urban soldier cyborg, operating as a freelance
mercenary. He evaded capture by Mechadoom. Coldblood hunted down and
fought the third Deathlok in Paris. He then joined forces with Deathlok
and Siege in defeating Harlan Ryker and his cyber-warriors.

Coldblood gave in to his cyborg-form at one point but with Gina's help
was brought back to the human side in him.

In later missions, Coldblood was hired by Roxxon Oil and had to get a
stolen biochemical weapon back from Dr. Jonathan Cayre's lab. Coldblood
gained the help of the original Excalibur team and succeeded in his
mission. Again later, Savin worked together with fellow cyborg
Deathlok, Silver Sable and her Wildpack against the villain group
ULTIMATUM.

In the 2006-2007 "Civil War" storyline, Coldblood was one of the many
super-heroes against the Superhuman Registration Act, and was
arrested. He is seen being transported to the Pro-Registration
super-prison 42 built within the Negative Zone, but almost immediately
suffers a paralyzing, psychotic break apparently due to the sensory
warping effects of his new environment and his own anguish. Later, he
is seen in the background behind Steve Rogers and the others just before
the final confrontation after being freed during the exodus created by
the resistance. Coldblood then participated during the battle
between both sides, and was later referred to being missing in
action.


Powers and abilities

Eric Savin was converted into the cyborg Coldblood-7 by Dr. Gina Dyson
and other Project: Ultra-Tech surgeons following designs by Mako. This
gave him superhuman strength, reflexes, speed, stamina, durability, and
enhanced sensory systems including night vision. He can see into the
infrared. Coldblood also has the ability to interface with virtually any
computer system, and, by mentally entering "cyberspace", to communicate
with such systems. He has a wetware-grafted computer grafted to his
organic brain, a plasti-steel-reinforced skeleton, an artificial heart,
synthetic hemoglobin, and artificial right eye. His legs are clearly
cybernetic, while his arms are composed of synthetic skin and muscle
over a plasti-steel skeleton. The right half of his face is an armored
cybernetic implant. The exact limits of his strength are not known, but
he is able to engage effectively in combat with Deathlok; an arguably
much more advanced cyborg. His artificial muscles do eventually fatigue,
but he can perform at full exertion for many hours without tiring. The
organic portions of Coldblood's body still require food, drink, oxygen
and sleep; however his artificial blood and organs grant him
considerable resistance to diseases and radiation. His in-built computer
analyses his sensory input; tracks targets and is capable of seeing
through illusions, detecting holograms and so forth. It requires a
recharge of electricity every twelve months of active service. The
portion of Coldblood's organic brain that accessed his personal memories
was removed during surgery that made him into a cyborg.

Coldblood wears body armor and uses conventional firearms, including a
.357 automatic gun implanted in his artificial left hand. Mako and
Project: Ultra-Tech also specially designed a high speed automobile for
him, with built-in guns. It can be either remote controlled by a device
in Coldblood's left wrist, or automatically by his in-built computer.

Coldblood is an excellent hand-to-hand combatant, highly trained in
commando fighting and is a superb marksman with conventional firearms.


In other media

Film

-   Eric Savin appears in the 2013 film Iron Man 3 portrayed by James
    Badge Dale. This version has undergone the Extremis treatment to
    boost his combat skills and give himself various fire-based powers
    and is Aldrich Killian's right-hand man. After being seen at Stark
    Industries during Killian's meeting with Pepper Potts, Happy Hogan
    witnesses Savin at the Chinese Theater giving Jack Taggert an
    Extremis dosage. When Happy takes the dosage away, Eric and Happy
    fight which results in Savin throwing Hogan down. After Taggert
    explodes from the overloaded dosage, the explosion kills many people
    and injures Hogan while Savin regenerates his damaged body and
    walks away. He then leads an assault on Tony Stark's mansion. Along
    with Ellen Brandt, Savin goes to Tennessee to recover evidence
    involving another Extremis soldier. After Stark kills Brandt, Eric
    threatens Harley Keener to force Stark to give up the evidence.
    Stark and Harley both subdue Savin, but he regenerates
    himself again. In Florida, Savin interrupts Stark's interrogation of
    Trevor Slattery. After James Rhodes is captured by Killian's
    soldiers, Savin poses as the Iron Patriot to board Air Force One and
    kidnaps President Matthew Ellis. As he is about to escape the plane,
    Savin gets in a fight with Stark's remote-controlled armor and is
    killed when Stark fires a repulsor blast through Savin's chest at
    point-blank range.

Video games

-   Eric Savin is featured in the Facebook game : Avengers
    Alliance. His abilities are like his Iron Man 3 incarnation's
    Extremis powers. In the 9th Spec Ops mission, Savin steals the Iron
    Patriot armor and is featured as a boss acting as the
    Mandarin's proxy.

