CONSTRICTOR (FRANK PAYNE) is a fictional character, a supervillain
turned antihero, appearing in American comic books published by 
Comics.


Publication history

Constrictor made his first appearance in Incredible Hulk #212 (1977)
and was created by Len Wein and Sal Buscema. The character went on to
feature as a supervillain in Captain America #228-229, #231
(1978–1979), Iron Man #126-127 (1979), Power Man & Iron Fist #66
(1980), Captain America Annual #5 (1981), Power Man & Iron Fist #78,
#84 (1982), Captain America #281-283 (1983), #309-311 (1985),
Fantastic Four #334 (1989),  Presents #74, #86-87.
#89-92 (1991), New Warriors Annual #2 (1992), The Spectacular
Spider-Man Annual #12 (1992), Web of Spider-Man Annual #8 (1992),
Iron Man #284 (1992), Nick Fury: Agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. vol.3 #36
(1992),  Presents #119-120 (1993), Alpha Flight vol.1
#121 (1993), Captain America #412 (1993), Sabretooth #1-3 (1994),
 Fanfare vol.2 #6 (1997), Thunderbolts #24-25 (1999), Gambit
vol.3 #12 (1999), #16-19 (2000), Gambit Annual 2000 (2000), The Hood
#2-4, #6 (2002), Agent X #6 (2003), Weapon X vol.2 #26, #28 (2004),
Secret War #3-5 (2004–2005),  Team-Up vol.3 #7 (2005) and
She-Hulk vol.1 #9 (2005).

Constrictor appeared as a supporting character in Deadpool #35 (1999),
#38-45 (2000) and #61 (2002). The character went on to feature in Cable
& Deadpool # 7-12 (2004–2005) and The Thing vol.2 #1-3, #8 (2006) in
a more heroic role. Constrictor later appeared as a member of the
Initiative in Avengers: The Initiative #1, #4-5, #8, #10, #12-15, #17
(2007–2008) and featured prominently in #20-24, #26-35 (2009–2010)
during the Dark Reign and Siege storylines.


Fictional character biography

Frank Payne was an agent of the international espionage organization
S.H.I.E.L.D., and the father of an adult daughter, Mia. When
S.H.I.E.L.D. needed a costumed "supervillain" to go undercover in the
criminal organization called the Corporation, Frank was given a
snake-themed costume and a pair of wrist-mounted electrified metal
coils. Using the false identity of "Frank Schlicting" from Racine,
Wisconsin, and the codename of "Constrictor", he infiltrated the group,
only to suffer a nervous breakdown and become a career criminal in
earnest. As a result of his defection, S.H.I.E.L.D. allowed his daughter
to believe that he had died. As the Constrictor, "Schlicting" debuted in
combat against the Hulk, while attempting to assassinate the Hulk's
friend Jim Wilson on behalf of the Corporation. The Corporation next
sent him to assassinate Captain America; the Constrictor was trapped in
a cave-in of S.H.I.E.L.D. headquarters, and was freed by Captain
America.

The Constrictor would remain an independent mercenary, criminal, and
assassin after the dissolution of the Corporation. He next battled Iron
Man as a member of Justin Hammer's criminal army. He next teamed with
Sabretooth to safeguard a stolen jade tiger statuette, and battled Power
Man and the Daughters of the Dragon. He teamed with Sabretooth again
to help Sabretooth get revenge on Misty Knight. They fought Iron
Fist, Power Man, El Aguila, and Misty Knight.

Working for the Viper, he battled Captain America and Nomad. He wound up
turning against the Viper. He next joined with other criminal in an
attempt to assassinate the hospitalized Thing.

Constrictor was also invited to join the Serpent Society, which he
turned down and walked out after the first meeting. He subsequently
tried to turn them over to the Avengers, and Anaconda later exacted
revenge on him. While in the hospital recuperating from the beating, he
was nearly killed by the Scourge of the Underworld disguised as a nurse,
but was saved by Captain America.

Constrictor eventually took an assignment to kill the Beast in Belgium
by Commander Courage who was impersonating the Red Ghost. Finding out
that he had been set up, Constrictor teamed up with Beast to defeat
Commander Courage.

He later had a showdown with his common law stepfather McAvey, who had
murdered his mother.

Constrictor has battled numerous heroes over the years, including
repeated encounters with Captain America, Iron Fist, Luke Cage,
Spider-Man, the Thing and even the short lived character NFL SuperPro.
Although Luke Cage and Nick Fury eventually uncovered Payne's former
identity, he chose to retain the Schlicting alias and to allow his
daughter to believe that her father was dead. During the Acts of
Vengeance, Constrictor was one of the many villains that attacked the
Fantastic Four.

Constrictor appeared as a supporting character in Deadpool wherein he
and Titania moved in with him as his roommates. During their
uncomfortable living situation, Constrictor was convinced that Titania
was actually a man. It would turn out that he was right that she wasn't
what she seemed; but not about her gender as Titania was revealed to
actually be the mutant shapeshifter and Deadpool's former lover,
Copycat. He was later found to be under the employment of Justin Hammer.
When cutbacks forced his supervisor to lay him off, he responded by
brutally attacking him.

He did join the seventh incarnation of the Masters of Evil led by
Crimson Cowl. During the Deadpool story arc, it was also revealed that
Constrictor had been part of a very short-lived rendition of the
Wizard's Frightful Four.

At one point he was one of the many mercenaries hired to kill Alex
Hayden, who was at this time thought to be Wade Wilson (Deadpool). He
works with many unnamed mercs and some notable ones, including
Crossfire. In the story it was stated that Wilson was a hard-ass so
Hayden couldn't be Deadpool. Hayden then broke Constrictor's nose. The
Constrictor was later seen in the same issue being used, or rather his
vibranium coils were used, to drag the Rhino into a river. Somehow both
escaped.

After a severe beating from Hercules, the Constrictor was awarded
several million dollars in a lawsuit. Nighthawk, rich himself, convinces
the Constrictor that with all his money there was no need to be a
criminal anymore, and he has apparently turned over a new leaf and
decided to be a hero. He is currently under the employment of
S.H.I.E.L.D. as a member of the new Six-Pack. He was most recently seen
at an all-superhuman charity poker tournament hosted by the Thing (who
also had a hand in the Constrictor's apparent reformation), where
Hercules regains at least a large portion of the money he lost to the
Constrictor in a non-tournament side game.

Constrictor plays a small role in the "Secret War" crossover event.

The Constrictor was identified as one of the 142 registered superheroes
who have registered as part of the 50-State Initiative. The
Constrictor was later revealed to be part of the Shadow Initiative, a
black ops version of the Initiative under the command of Henry
Gyrich. He travels with Trauma and Mutant Zero, two other members of
the group, into Madison Square Garden; they rescue Initiative recruits
from the invading alien forces called the Warbound.

Constrictor saved Gyrich from the clone of MVP known as "KIA", however
KIA severed Constrictor's forearms in retaliation. Constrictor was
quickly ferried away to safety by fellow team member Bengal. He was
given bionic hands which function like his coils, and was also presented
with a Purple Heart for his valiant efforts. Following a
supervillain ambush outside of Camp Hammond, Butterball washed out the
camp where he and Taskmaster give Schaub a photo of himself standing
triumphant over the defeated villains.

During the Secret Invasion, Bengal discovers that the Skrulls have
taken over Camp Hammond and summons the rest of the Shadow Initiative to
deal with them. They decide to assassinate Queen Veranke, but the
attempt fails and they are taken captive.

During a conflict with the initiative and some terrorists as seen in the
Dark Reign, Constrictor helps the Women Warriors, one of the official
government hero teams. He stops an out of control passenger plane,
saving many lives, including that of the hero, Diamondback. Constrictor
is visibly distressed as civilians thank him for his heroic actions.
Soon after, he and Diamondback begin a romantic relationship. Frank
later discovers that Diamondback is secretly working for Gauntlet's
"Avengers Resistance". He keeps her secret despite knowing the
danger this involves for them both; mainly the Initiative head,
Taskmaster, would kill them both.

During the Siege of Asgard, Constrictor becomes buried under a pile of
falling rubble. Taskmaster digs him out, and Constrictor sees
Diamondback running towards Captain America. Wrongfully assuming that
she has reconciled with and returned to her former lover, Constrictor
sorrowfully joins Taskmaster in fleeing the battlefield. The two also
begin working as mercenaries and partners in crime.

Constrictor was later recruited by Max Fury to join the Shadow Council's
incarnation of the Masters of Evil.

As part of the  NOW!_ event in the pages of Avengers Arena, a
flashback experienced by Arcade showed that he had previously acquired
the ownership of a bar in Bagalia called the Hole where he catches
Constrictor (who previously attended Arcade's birthday party and made
fun of him) robbing it. Arcade defeated Constrictor by crushing him with
a large hammer-like trap.

During the Infinity storyline, Constrictor is among the villains
recruited by Spymaster to help him attack the almost-defenseless Stark
Tower.

In the pages of Avengers Undercover, Constrictor was with the Masters
of Evil when Baron Helmut Zemo became the new leader following the death
of Max Fury. Constrictor becomes the bodyguard of Baron Helmut Zemo.
Constrictor is shown to live in a building called the Snakepit in
Bagalia which is also the headquarters of the Young Masters.


Powers and abilities

The Constrictor's primary weapon is a pair of cybernetically-controlled,
electrified, prehensile, wrist-mounted metal coils provided by Justin
Hammer. The coils eject and retract from special appliances running from
shoulder to wrist. These cables are able to extend to a maximum length
of and can be used as whips, capable of rending steel or lesser metals;
or as bonds, capable of entwining an object or human being and
constricting.

The previous sets of coils were made from an adamantium alloy then from
vibranium. The adamantium coils were stolen from him by Gambit and were
subsequently used by Mister Sinister to reinforce Sabretooth's skeleton.
The strength of the coils varies based on their construction, but the
adamantium coils were powerful enough to lift and even temporarily
restrain the Hulk. The vibranium coils have a contact-based aura that
suppresses sound: while the coils are wrapped around a target's throat,
the victim's voice cannot be heard.

The Constrictor's costume is lightly armored with partial bulletproofing
around the chest and head area, and the entire costume is
electrically-insulated, and covers his entire body except for his lower
face and chin. Although the Constrictor is a skilled unarmed combatant
and street fighter, he usually relies exclusively on his coils in a
fight.

After his encounter with KIA, Constrictor is implanted with cybernetic
arms, the fingers of which duplicate the abilities of his old coils.


Other versions

An alternative version of Constrictor appeared in JLA/Avengers #4
(2003), part of the / crossover storyline, as part of Krona's
supervillain army. Other versions of the character appear in the What
If? storylines What If?: World War Hulk #1 (2010) and What If?:
Secret Invasion #1 (2010) in minor and cameo roles.

House of M

A version of Constrictor appears in the House of M reality. In House of
M: Masters of Evil #1-4 (2009–2010), Constrictor is a member of the
Hood's incarnation of the Masters of Evil opposing mutants' superior
role in society. The character was later killed by Sebastian Shaw
during the group's fight with S.H.I.E.L.D.


In other media

Television

-   Constrictor appears in The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes,
    voiced by Cam Clarke in the first appearance and by Troy Baker in
    the second appearance. He appears as a member of the
    Serpent Society. In the episode "The Breakout" Pt. 1, Constrictor
    was seen escaping from the Big House. In the episode "Ultron-5,"
    Constrictor was seen with the Serpent Society when they fight the
    Avengers and Ultron-5. In the episode "Yellowjacket," Constrictor
    was seen with the Serpent Society when they are defeated by
    Yellowjacket and placed in a prototype version of a new Big House.

Video games

-   Constrictor is featured as a boss in the Facebook game :
    Avengers Alliance. Following the release of the 10th Spec Ops,
    Constrictor can be unlocked as a playable character by collecting 8
    comic covers from Coiled Lockboxes.

Toys

-   A figure of Constrictor was released as an exclusive foreign release
    as part of Mattel's Secret Wars toyline.
-   A figure of Constrictor was released in wave 11 of Hasbro's 3 3/4"
     Universe toyline.
-   A figure of Constrictor was released in wave 1 of Hasbro's 6" 
    Legends 2012 toyline.

