CORSAIR (Major CHRISTOPHER SUMMERS, USAF) is a fictional character, a
star-faring hero appearing in American comic books published by 
Comics. He leads the Starjammers and is best known as the father of
X-Men superheroes Cyclops and Havok, and the supervillain Vulcan. He
first appeared in X-Men #104, and was created by Dave Cockrum.


Concept and creation

Dave Cockrum created the Starjammers with the intent of having them star
in their own series. However, when he submitted the concept for 's
two try-out series,  Spotlight and  Premiere, he was
repeatedly informed that these series were booked for two years solid.
Running out of patience, Cockrum showed the Starjammers, including
Corsair, to X-Men writer Chris Claremont, and convinced him to use the
characters for this series. In order to provide a plausible excuse for
the Starjammers to make repeat appearances in X-Men, they decided to
make Corsair the father of Cyclops, leader of the X-Men.


Fictional character biography

Origins

Many years ago, a test pilot for NASA, United States Air Force Major
Christopher Summers, was flying himself, his wife Katherine Anne, and
their two young sons Scott and Alex in their private airplane, a rebuilt
de Havilland Mosquito, down the Western American coast from Alaska when
their plane was attacked by a starship from the alien Shi'ar Empire on
an exploratory mission to Earth. The Shi'ar pursued Summers' craft to
prevent Summers from making their presence on Earth known to the general
public. The Shi'ar craft fired on Summers' plane, which was made of
wood, causing it to burst into flame. Unable to find more than one
usable parachute in time, Katherine Anne put it on her eldest son Scott,
told him to hold onto Alex, and pushed them both out the plane door,
hoping to save them both. Scott and Alex thus escaped the Shi'ar.

Christopher and his wife were subsequently teleported aboard the Shi'ar
starship and taken to the Shi'ar Imperial Throneworld of Chandilar.
There, Christopher was separated from his wife and imprisoned. He soon
broke free and discovered the mad Shi'ar Emperor D'Ken attempting to
rape Katherine Anne. D'Ken responded to the interruption by murdering
Summers' wife before his eyes, and then ordered Summers to be sent to
the Slave Pits of Alsibar where criminals and political prisoners were
incarcerated.

Formation of the Starjammers

In the Pits, Summers met four aliens who had been imprisoned for various
crimes against the Shi'ar Empire – a Saurid named Ch'od, a Lupin named
Cr'reee, a Mephitisoid whom Summers nicknamed Hepzibah (as her true name
was unpronounceable by most not of her own species), and a Shi'ar cyborg
named Raza Longknife – and together they escaped and stole a starship.
Naming their vessel the Starjammer, and themselves the Starjammers, the
group functioned as space pirates targeting Shi'ar vessels, thus taking
vengeance on the Shi'ar but taking care not to harm innocent passengers
in the process. The Starjammers quickly came to be regarded as outlaws
by the Shi'ar Empire. In addition, Summers and Hepzibah became lovers.

X-Men

The Starjammers first met the team of superhuman Earth mutants known as
the X-Men when the two groups joined forces on a world in the Shi'ar
Galaxy to battle the Imperial Guard, the super-powered soldiers who
served the ruling Shi'ar emperor or empress – at the time, D'ken. One
of the X-Men, the cosmic being known as the Phoenix who had assumed the
form of the X-Man Jean Grey, used her telepathic powers to probe
Corsair's mind and learned that he was the father of Scott Summers, who
had become the X-Man known as Cyclops. At Corsair's request, Phoenix
kept his true identity a secret from Cyclops, but both Cyclops and
his brother Alex, who had become the X-Man named Havok, eventually
learned who Corsair really was.

Starjammers and the Shi'ar

Since the Starjammers aided her against the machinations of her brother
D'Ken, the Shi'ar Princess Lilandra, once she was named Empress in
D'Ken's stead, put an unofficial end to the Shi'ar Empire's opposition
to the Starjammers. Corsair aided the X-Men against the Sidri, and then
admitted to Cyclops that he was his father.

However, it would not be long before the Starjammers would become
outlaws once more. The Starjammers and the X-Men fought the Brood, and
battled Lilandra's sister Deathbird. However, Deathbird's coup d'état
was ultimately successful, allowing her to seize the throne. Herself
branded a rebel, Lilandra came to join the Starjammers in their fight
against Deathbird's tyrannical reign.

After a while, Corsair rescued Charles Xavier from Fenris, and took him
into outer space to adventure with the Starjammers and be with his lover
Lilandra. Corsair and the Starjammers later embarked on the Phalkon
Quest.

Eventually, Lilandra and the Starjammers' opposition to Deathbird's rule
sparked rebellions across the Empire, and following an attempted
takeover of the Empire by the shape-shifting alien Skrulls, Lilandra
settled matters with Deathbird, discovering her sister did not want the
throne anymore.

The Starjammers subsequently aided Lilandra during the war with the
alien Kree Empire, clashed with the Earth team of super-beings known as
the Avengers, and were hired by Lilandra to capture the Shi'ar traitor
named Cerise. Eventually, the Starjammers would come to blows with the
Shi'ar Empire once more after discovering the poor treatment of the
conquered Kree. The Starjammers allied themselves with a group of
neutral worlds calling themselves The Clench who provided the pirates
with a navigator named Keeyah. During one of the Starjammers' rescue
missions, they discovered a vessel belonging to the alien Uncreated, a
race of militaristic atheists who intended to destroy any culture that
practiced a form of religion, including the Shi'ar. Seeing the Shi'ar as
the lesser of two evils, Corsair chose to stop the Uncreated which
earned the Starjammers Lilandra's thanks and a pardon for their crimes.

Corsair sought to retire, but soon after the Starjammers were captured
by the being known as the Collector. Together with the X-Man Wolverine,
the Starjammers managed to escape both the Collector and the cosmic
world-devourer known as Galactus. The Starjammers would later aid the
Shi'ar in fending off the threat of Galactus, and subsequently helped
Lilandra and Xavier during their efforts to free Earth from its sentence
as an intergalactic prison planet.

Corsair and Scott reconciled

At one point, Scott was killed by Apocalypse, only to be resurrected
after some months. After Scott's revival, Corsair apologized to his son
for not checking up on him during his time with the Starjammers. Corsair
felt that since he could not keep the plane from crashing and that he
could not save his own wife, that Scott and Alex were in better hands in
the care of the various homes that his two sons stayed at rather than
with him. This apology clearly sunk in: prior to House of M, Cyclops'
student team of X-Men was called the Corsairs.

Death

Corsair has been reunited with Havok, his son, who brought him news
about Vulcan. Corsair decided to support the X-Men (this time the group
includes Rachel Summers, Nightcrawler, Warpath, Darwin, Polaris and
Professor X) and Lilandra in preventing D'Ken from becoming emperor once
more (with the help of Vulcan and Deathbird). In the midst of a battle
between the Shi'ar troops loyal to Lilandra (aided by the Starjammers
and X-Men) and Shi'ar troops loyal to D'Ken, Vulcan kills D'Ken and
proclaims himself emperor. Corsair commands Vulcan to stop the senseless
violence, but Vulcan kills Corsair. Subsequently, Alex (Havok)
becomes the new leader of the Starjammers, who now include Corsair's
granddaughter Rachel, Polaris, and original members Ch'od and Raza.

Return

When a time-displaced teenage Jean Grey is kidnapped by the Shi'ar to be
placed on trial for her actions as Phoenix, the All-New X-Men and the
Guardians of the Galaxy teamed up and traveled through space to save
her. It was then that they encountered Corsair, who was alive and well
and back in charge of the Starjammers. The time-displaced Cyclops
finds out for the first time that his father was alive, as the
Starjammers had him resurrected at the insistence of Hepzibah, though
Corsair is now a techno-organic cyborg who must regularly ingest
nano-machine pills to stay alive. Cyclops decided to remain with the
Starjammers to catch up with his father. After pillaging a Badoon ship,
Corsair and his teenage son decided to travel the galaxy on their
own.


Powers and abilities

Corsair had no superhuman powers, though he was athletic for a man of
his age. He was trained in basic hand-to-hand combat, as well as fencing
skills and Shi'ar fighting techniques. He also had extensive knowledge
of both terrestrial and Shi'ar weapons, and had exceptional piloting
skills in both terrestrial and Shi'ar aircraft and spacecraft. He was
usually armed with a saber-like Shi'ar blade, and utilized various
Shi'ar weapons as needed which he carried in an extra-dimensional
pocket, notable among which were twin energy blasters accessible by
pressing the "jewels" on his gauntlets.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

[Corsair Brood, by Moore, Vaughan, Epting and Napolitano] In this harsh
reality, when the war against humanity by Apocalypse was just beginning,
Major Christopher Summers wanted to stay and fight, but instead chose to
fly his family to Canada to keep them safe.

However, as he was flying his family to safety, their plane was attacked
by an alien starship. Summers pushed his sons Alex and Scott out of the
plane with their only parachute. He and his wife Katherine were then
abducted by the Shi'ar, and Katherine was killed after the Shi'ar, who
were implanted by Brood eggs, put her under severe experiments.
Meanwhile, Alex and Scott were raised by Sinister and eventually became
Prelates under the rule of Apocalypse.

Surrounded by prisoners from throughout the galaxy, Summers and his
fellow prisoners bonded over their hate for the Shi'ar and formed the
Starjammers. Summers eventually led a mutiny against his captors and for
years the Starjammers tried to take their revenge on the Shi'ar, who
were fighting a losing war of their own against the Brood. Summers
apparently began to feel tired and left the Starjammers to return to
Earth to reunite with his sons, however on his way, Christopher Summers
tragically encountered the Brood once again and while he managed to
escape he was however implanted with a brood egg. As Summers crashlanded
he was immediately captured by Apocalypse's forces. For five years, Hank
McCoy studied him, trying to figure out his odd DNA. Mr Sinister kept
Summers' presence on Earth hidden from his two sons.

Christopher eventually escaped, and found Joe Robertson who told him
what his kids had become. He lost control of his Brood half, killed
Robbie, infected him with a brood egg, and ran. Sinister sent Emplate,
the Monets, Northstar and Aurora after him, but Summers shot Emplate
through the chest, killing him and frying the Monet's brains. He then
blew up a car, knocking out Northstar and Aurora. Summers ran to a
scavenger camp, where he killed and infected all of the scavengers and
their intended victim Colleen Wing.

Scott and Alex went after him, not knowing his true identity. They met
up with him, and he convinced them that he was their father. They were
attacked by two scavengers, Mister Hyde and Cobra and Summers almost
lost control again. They ran to an old warehouse to find shelter from
the coming storm.

While sweeping the perimeter, Scott encountered a chained Misty Knight
along with the bodies of Colleen Wing and the scavengers Christopher had
slain. Scott and Knight returned to the warehouse, but Wing and the
other "dead" bodies followed and attacked, transformed into Brood. They
fought but lost ground until Sinister arrived to save them. Christopher
lost control and fully morphed into a Brood. Sinister claimed that he
had learned of Christopher's transformation and concealed his return
from Scott and Alex until he could cure their father. Christopher
attacked Sinister, and then Alex, before regaining enough control to
tell Scott to kill him. Scott reluctantly did so. Alex and Scott
cremated his body.

Ultimate Corsair

Corsair was referenced in Ultimate X-Men's Sinister storyline, but not
as a person. Instead, it was a science fiction world that Cyclops
invented after seeing Star Wars. Nick Fury made reference to having
served with Cyclops' father in the Gulf War.

X-Men Forever

In the X-Men Forever alternate reality, Corsair and the Starjammers
settle down to work as security for Nathan Summers, his grandson, who is
living with Corsair's parents in Alaska. This mission suffers several
setbacks due to a family friend being a spy for Mister Sinister.


In other media

Television

-   Corsair appeared several times during the original X-Men TV
    series, where his story was very similar to the comic book version.
    In "The Phoenix Saga," voiced by Brian Taylor, he is captain of the
    Starjammers and crosses paths with the X-Men during his theft of the
    M'Kraan Crystal. As in the comics, Jean Grey learns who he really is
    by probing his mind, but she doesn't share this knowledge
    with anyone. In "Orphan's End," Cyclops sees Corsair's dogtags and
    locket (which contains a picture of the Summers family,) allowing
    them both to finally learn the truth.
-   Very briefly, Corsair is seen in the season one finale of X-Men:
    Evolution, during a flashback Scott is having that details the
    plane crash that separated him from Scott and Havok. However, since
    the series never explored the Shi'ar, he is not depicted leading
    the Starjammers.

Video games

-   Corsair appears in the video game : Ultimate Alliance voiced
    by Scott MacDonald. He helps the heroes initially escape a Shi'ar
    attack after they arrive in the Shi'ar galaxy just after Deathbird
    has staged a coup of Lilandra's throne. He subsequently gives them
    advice on how to send a message for help while disabling the weapons
    of the ship the heroes have arrived on so that the arriving fleet
    won't be destroyed.

