CRIPPLER is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by .

Crippler is a mercenary who was once a member of HYDRA, but later quit
to become a vigilante and later member of Silver Sable's Wild Pack.


Fictional character biography

Carl Stricklan was once a U.S. Marine, but was dishonorably discharged.
He became a New York police officer, but was dismissed for excessive
brutality. As the Crippler, he became an agent in the employ of HYDRA,
as a member of the Elite Bounty Division. He was sent on a mission by
Baron Strucker to retrieve Sathan. The Crippler battled Daredevil,
Darius, and Sathan. He then quit Hydra to become a vigilante. He next
battled the Wildboys.

The Crippler soon became a mercenary, and joined the Silver Sable's Wild
Pack. On his first mission with them, he battled Gattling and The
Watchdogs. Next, the Wild Pack were sent to rescue Silver Sable, and
battled doppelgangers of the Sandman and Doctor Doom. They then met
Deathlok. The Wild Pack searched for Deathlok's human body, and
battled the Cyberwarriors. The Wild Pack was then hired by J. Jonah
Jameson to capture the Human Torch. With the Wild Pack, the Crippler
then battled Venom. The Wild Pack then battled the Genesis
Coalition. The Wild Pack then teamed up with Next Wave, Stingray, and
Siege to battle the Cyberwarriors and Genesis Coalition.

The Initiative

Stricklan is being considered as a "potential recruit" for the
Initiative program.


Powers and abilities

The Crippler is a normal man with an athletic build. He is an
extraordinary street-fighter, and received further training in armed and
unarmed combat from the U.S. Marines, NYPD, Hydra, and Silver Sable. He
is an expert marksman, and an expert with knives, whips, staves, and
most other hand weapons.

He wears a Kevlar-lined costume provided by Silver Sable, and uses his
Hydra-supplied cobtraton (a sectioned telescoping steel baton), and
various knives, hand guns, rifles, and flamethrowers as needed.

The Crippler has a deranged addiction to physical violence and enjoys
both inflicting and experiencing physical pain.

