THE CRUSADERS is a group of fictional characters appearing in American
comic books published by . The characters first appear in
The Invaders #14 (March 1977) and were created by Roy Thomas, Jack
Kirby, and Frank Robbins.


Publication history

The Crusaders first appear in the World War II title The Invaders and
capture the crew of a crashed German bomber. Accepted by the British
people, the team (Captain Wings, Dyna-Mite, Ghost Girl, the Spirit of
'76, Thunder Fist, and Tommy Lightning) becomes the official protectors
of the current king (George VI), thereby displacing the American
superhero team the Invaders. The Crusaders are revealed to be guided by
a cabbie driver and apparent British spy called "Alfie", who can cancel
their powers courtesy of a technological belt the character wears.

The character Dyna-Mite, who has no memory of his former life, becomes
suspicious and spies on Alfie, learning he is a Nazi agent and is
planning to use the heroes to assassinate the king. Dyna-Mite warns the
Invaders, and Alfie instigates a fight between the heroes and the
Crusaders. The Nazi is killed in a car crash attempting to escape from
the android Human Torch. The Crusaders, now powerless, disband, although
Dyna-Mite—revealed to be Roger Aubrey, the close friend of Brian
Falsworth, the brother of Invader Spitfire—remains trapped in a minute
form.

Aubrey is eventually restored to normal height and adopts Falsworth's
former heroic identity as the Destroyer, now calling himself the Mighty
Destroyer (as Falsworth eventually succeeded his father, James
Falsworth, as Union Jack II).

Conception

The Crusaders were based on the  superhero team the Freedom
Fighters. The character associations are: Captain Wings and Black
Condor; Dyna-Mite and Doll Man; Ghost Girl and Phantom Lady; Spirit of
'76 and Uncle Sam; Thunder Fist and Human Bomb; and Tommy Lightning and
the Ray.

At the same time that the Invaders were meeting the Crusaders in 
Comics, ' Freedom Fighters were also facing off against a team
called the Crusaders, with the  version of the Crusaders based upon
' Invaders. (Several of the Crusaders that fought the
Freedom Fighters were really "comic book fans" named "Lennie" (Len
Wein), "Marvin" (Marv Wolfman), "Arch" (Archie Goodwin), and "Roy" (Roy
Thomas), as shown in Freedom Fighters #9.)

