DAIMON HELLSTROM, also known as the SON OF SATAN and HELLSTORM, DAMIEN
HELLSTORM, is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by .


Publication history

Encouraged by the success of the titles Ghost Rider and The Tomb of
Dracula, both of which starred occult characters, Stan Lee proposed a
series starring Satan, to be titled The Mark of Satan. Editor Roy
Thomas had reservations about this idea and suggested a series focusing
on the son of Satan instead. (Due to an oversight, "The Mark of
Satan" is mentioned in a blurb in Ghost Rider #1.)

According to Thomas, Lee approved of the idea, and Gary Friedrich and
Herb Trimpe were assigned the task of designing the character. However,
Trimpe denies this, claiming Friedrich alone designed Daimon Hellstrom
and only brought him in as artist after the character was fully
realized. Thomas has said he later realized that a 1960s fanzine
character created by his friend Biljo White had looked very similar.
As Thomas recalled in 2001,

The character Daimon Hellstrom first appeared in Ghost Rider vol. 1,
#1 (Sept. 1973), then was spun off into a feature, "Son of Satan", in
 Spotlight #12–24 (Oct. 1973 – Oct. 1975). During the "Son of
Satan" run,  Spotlight was a controversial series, with numerous
readers writing to object to the depictions of satanism and wiccanism as
being either inaccurate or furthering the cause of evil. Nonetheless,
sales were strong, prompting  to launch the character into his own
series, Son of Satan, written by John Warner. The character's success
faded soon after the series launch, and Son of Satan was cancelled
with issue #7, though an unused fill-in was published as Son of Satan
#8 (Feb. 1977).

Hellstrom became a recurring character in Defenders, Steve Gerber
having added the character to the team during the time he was writing
the "Son of Satan" feature in  Spotlight, and Hellstrom
continued to appear in Defenders following the cancellation of 
Spotlight. One of the later writers on Defenders, J. M. DeMatteis,
featured a number of subplots focused on Daimon Hellstrom, commenting
that he "was absolutely my favorite character. Characters like Son of
Satan are a wonderful metaphor for what we all contain, good and evil,
high and low aspirations. He's literally the son of the Devil, trying
not to be what his father is. For a writer like me, how can you not
feast on that?"

In 1993, he once more received his own series with Hellstorm: Prince of
Lies. As suggested by the title, his surname was spelled "Hellstorm"
during this series. Rafael Nieves wrote the first 4 issues; Len Kaminski
took over as scripter until issue #11. Warren Ellis then took over as
writer until the series's cancellation with #21.


Fictional character biography

Daimon Hellstrom was born in the fictional town of Greentown,
Massachusetts. He is the son of Satan and a mortal woman named Victoria
Wingate (his father was later retconned into a demon named Marduk
Kurios who was actually the biblical Lucifer, according to the
N'Garai). Daimon and his sister, Satana, were trained by their father in
the art of magic, tapping into the power granted them by their dark
heritage. However, while Satana embraced her heritage, Daimon clung to
his humanity. When their mother discovered who her husband really was,
she was driven mad. Daimon and Satana were separated and put in
different homes after his mother was institutionalized and his father
banished back to Hell. Daimon grew up in a Jesuit-run orphanage, never
hearing a word from his father or sister. He became a professor of
anthropology at St. Louis University. He then set himself up as an
occult investigator and defender of humanity, battling dark arcane
forces—primarily those of his father—under the name of the "Son of
Satan", as a demonologist and exorcist.

In his first appearance, Daimon battled Satan and Witch-Woman, alongside
Ghost Rider. Soon after that, he began a long association with the
Defenders by helping them battle Asmodeus (leader of the Sons of
Satannish) and Satannish himself. He also helped the Defenders
battle the third Sons of the Serpent. Later, alongside the Human
Torch, he battled the Dryminextes. He then encountered Satana for
the first time as an adult. Alongside the Thing, he battled
Kthara. Alongside Ghost Rider again, he battled Challenger.
Hellstrom next battled the Possessor. After Steve Gerber ceased
writing the book, Hellstrom began working at the University of the
District of Columbia Parapsychology Department, where he had a
friendship with a female professor who was a Wiccan. Alongside the
Defenders, he battled the Hulk.

He then became a recurring member of the Defenders in good standing.
Alongside the Defenders, he battled the Six-Fingered Hand, and was taken
to Hell by Satan. He was subsequently expelled from Hell by Satan,
and rejoined the Defenders. Alongside Luke Cage, he battled the Sons
of Satannish again. Hellstrom then battled an unnamed demon who had
taken his place as "Daimon Hellstrom". Alongside the Defenders, he
battled the Miracle Man, who stole Daimon's "Darksoul", the essence of
his evil heritage. Alongside the Defenders, Hellstrom battled Mad
Dog and Mutant Force. He then married his teammate Patsy Walker, alias
Hellcat. Alongside the Defenders, Cutlass, Typhoon, and Hannibal
King, Hellstrom then battled Minerva Bannister.

Alongside Hellcat and the West Coast Avengers, he later battled Master
Pandemonium, Allatou, and the Cat People. He later exorcised Lincoln
Slade's spirit from Hamilton Slade's body. Alongside the West Coast
Avengers again, he battled Seth's forces.

Daimon and Patsy retired from adventuring, and Daimon went on a personal
quest for meaning. He traveled to a monastery where the Miracle Man had
taken refuge. When the Miracle Man stole Daimon's "Darksoul", Daimon
discovered that he was human, but he was also dying. Patsy eventually
used a dark book in Daimon's possession to summon "Satan" and pleaded
for him to save Daimon's life. However, to do this, Daimon had to regain
his Darksoul and once again become the "Son of Satan". Daimon was
re-imbued with his essence, but upon witnessing Daimon's "true face" of
evil, Patsy went insane. Daimon kept her away from prying eyes in his
estate at Fire Lake, where she spent most days asleep or babbling
seemingly randomly. She would remain there until one day she regained
enough sanity to weep for having brought back such evil into the world,
and committed suicide with the aid of a being known as Deathurge.

Daimon battled the Black School. Now calling himself "Hellstorm", he
ultimately discovered a way to finally defeat his father. Daimon
discovered his father's true name -- Marduk Kurios—and used the power of
this knowledge to finally kill him. Daimon became the new "Satan",
ruling over his father's Hell. He used this power to allow Hawkeye and
his Thunderbolts to return Patsy from the dead.

In the Hellcat mini-series, Daimon told his wife that he was never
truly the son of Marduk Kurios; his true father was Satannish, who was
himself the son of the Dread Dormammu. Daimon claimed he had been
fathered as part of a plot to take control of the various "Hell"
dimensions. These claims, however, heavily contradicted Hellstorm's
established history. It has since been established that Hellstorm was
deliberately lying to Patsy when he made these claims; his love for
Patsy led him to push her away in hopes that she would be happier
without him.

Hellstorm used this claim to assume control over Satannish's realm, and
inherit Dormammu's right to rule as designated by the powerful "Flames
of Faltine". However, without either Satannish or Dormammu backing
Daimon, Mephisto was able to gain control of the vast majority of
"Hell".

Daimon was recruited by Kyle Richmond for the Defenders as part of the
Fifty States Initiative. Working outside of the Initiative, this
team is later forcibly disbanded by H.A.M.M.E.R.

Daimon was then brought to A.R.M.O.R. to join the Midnight Sons in
facing an inter dimensional zombie threat. The Midnight Sons head to
Taino to contain the zombie virus but end up in a battle with Hood's
forces. During the course of the outbreak on the island, the demonic
Dormammu possesses fellow member Jennifer Kale, though Daimon exorcises
him from her. The mission ends up a success, though the zombie
Deadpool's head escapes.

He is sought out by Doctor Strange as a potential claimant of the title
of Sorcerer Supreme. However, he is attacked by the Hood first, who is
attacking potential magic users who could also claim the title and,
helped by him and Brother Voodoo (now going by Doctor Voodoo, as the new
Sorcerer Supreme), they manage to banish Dormammu, leaving the Hood
powerless for a while. Some time around the Dark Reign, Hellstrom,
after being informed by a Satanist priest of the Antichrist, vows to
slay the boy and, joining once more with former girlfriend Jaine Cutter,
rescues the Ghost Rider from Zadkiel's forces, and eventually the Riders
united are able to reclaim Heaven, overthrow the renegade Zadkiel, and
triumph over the forces Satan unleashed against them.

During the Chaos War storyline, Hellstrom rises from the pits of Hell
itself to inform the newly assembled "God Squad" that his father's fiery
realm had fallen to the hordes of the Chaos King, and that all the dead
souls of the Underworld were now under his thrall. Hellstrom joins
forces with the God Squad and pits his demonic powers against those of
the enslaved Zeus, Hera, and Ares, to little avail, and later journeys
with them in a last desperate attempt to seal Mikaboshi in Yomi.

In the pages of Avengers Undercover, Daimon Hellstrom appears as a
member of the Shadow Council's incarnation of the Masters of Evil. He is
seen in the inner circle of Baron Helmut Zemo (who became the second
leader of the Masters of Evil following the death of Max Fury).
Cullen Bloodstone tells the teenage heroes that followed him that Daimon
Hellstrom has been helping him to control his Glaratrox form. Daimon
Hellstrom was with Baron Zemo, Madame Masque, and Constrictor when they
watch the teenage heroes confront Arcade at Massacrer Casino. When
the teenage heroes are apprehended by S.H.I.E.L.D. and placed in a
S.H.I.E.L.D. detention center, Daimon Hellstrom teleports the entire
building back to Bagalia where Baron Zemo offers the group a chance to
join the Masters of Evil. Daimon Hellstrom is shown to live in
Hellstrom Manor in Hell Town, Bagalia.


Powers and abilities

As a ruler of a dimension of Hell, Hellstrom commands virtually
unlimited power in his own dimension. Potentially, he can perform
virtually any magical feat.

As Hellstorm, thanks to his demonic heritage, Daimon Hellstrom could
sense the presence of the supernatural and could cast spells to
transport himself and others into mystical dimensions and back to Earth.
Other powers he exhibited at this time may not have stemmed from himself
(as he had lost his "Darksoul," see below) but from his magical trident.
Hellstorm could project mystic energy in the form of "soulfire" (also
called "hellfire") from his trident, causing excruciating pain within
living beings through direct contact of a person's life force. The
soulfire did not physically burn in the sense that true fire does, and
Hellstrom could project soulfire as a concussive blast of force. He
could use soulfire for various other effects, including flight and
physical transformations.

As the Son of Satan, Hellstrom possessed supernatural powers derived
from his "Darksoul," a demonic counterpart to his human soul, which
physically manifested itself in the pentagram-shaped birthmark on his
chest. The Darksoul granted him superhuman strength, and the ability to
project soulfire. He was able to magically change into his demonic
costume at will by extending the middle three fingers of each hand in
the shape of a trident, concentrating, and letting his soulfire engulf
his body. Once, Hellstrom used his powers to travel through time to
ancient Atlantis.

As Hellstorm and the Son of Satan, Hellstrom wielded a trident made of
netharanium, a "psychosensitive" metal found only in "Satan's"
extra-dimensional realm. The trident was a medium through which magical
energies, such as Hellstrom's soulfire, could be amplified and
projected. By projecting the soulfire through the trident, Hellstrom
could gain enough thrust to levitate and to fly for short periods of
time.

He also used a fiery chariot drawn by three flying demonic horses.

Daimon Hellstrom is an expert in demonology, and a highly experienced
exorcist with some knowledge of mystic rites. He has an advanced degree
in theology, and is self-taught in demonology.


Other versions

Ultimate 

[The unpowered Ultimate version of the Son of Satan] In the Ultimate
 universe, the SON OF SATAN first appeared in the sixth issue of
The Ultimates 2, but had a small role which served only to develop
Hank Pym's story. He is a member of a team of amateur, unpowered
vigilantes called the Defenders, all of whom are also lacking in powers
except for Henry Pym/Giant-Man. He is also called "Damien" by Nighthawk.
He wears a "costume" that is a mix of punk rock and goth elements,
including dark facial make-up, bright pink hair, and multiple piercings.
When asked if he is actually the son of Satan, he simply replies "Are
you retarded?"

In Ultimate Comics: New Ultimates, it was revealed that this Son of
Satan is actually a spy (à la COINTELPRO) for S.H.I.E.L.D. - presumably
to keep an eye on both Giant Man and the wannabe heroes - and a reserve
member of The Ultimates. His name is revealed to be Daimon
Hellstorm.

Son of Satan re-appears as a new member of the Ultimates in Ultimate
Comics: New Ultimates, having gained powers from a mysterious force,
which is later revealed to be Thor's brother Loki.

MAX

Science fiction writer Alexander Irvine wrote the miniseries Hellstorm:
Son of Satan, starring Hellstrom as a hero in post-Hurricane Katrina
New Orleans for the MAX imprint, 's mature readers line.

Ruins

In Warren Ellis' Ruins, a two part series which takes place in a
dystopian reality of the  Multiverse where everything went wrong,
a version of Hellstrom is mentioned in the narrative captions of the
series' main character, Phil Sheldon. While on the way to interview Rick
Jones, Sheldon passed by a woman with a 'gray baby' in her arms with a
fistula in its chest. The woman claims that for a dollar, one would be
allowed to hear the fistula saying "Our lord is dead". When Sheldon
tried to quickly get away from the woman, she shouted "Don't forget the
baby's name, He'll be the Messiah one day... Daimon Hellstrom. Don't
forget Daimon Hellstrom".


In other media

Video games

-   Daimon Hellstrom appears in : Avengers Alliance as a
    limited-time unlockable character.

