DAISY JOHNSON, also known as QUAKE and SKYE, is a fictional superhero
appearing in American comic books published by . Created by
writer Brian Michael Bendis and artist Gabriele Dell'Otto, the character
first appeared in Secret War #2 (July 2004). The daughter of the
supervillain Mister Hyde, she is a secret agent of the intelligence
organization S.H.I.E.L.D. with the power to generate earthquakes. In the
television series Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._, Chloe Bennet portrays the
 Cinematic Universe version of the character, reimagining her as
an Inhuman originally known as Skye. Aspects of this interpretation were
later integrated back into the comics.


Publication history

A member of the international espionage agency S.H.I.E.L.D., she was
created by writer Brian Michael Bendis and artist Gabriele Dell'Otto,
and first appeared in Secret War #2 (July 2004). During Secret
Invasion, she joins Nick Fury's Secret Warriors under the codename
Quake.

Her look was modeled after actress Angelina Jolie in the film
Hackers.

Daisy Johnson appeared as a supporting character in the 2010-2013
Avengers series, from issue #19 (January 2012) through its final issue
#34 (January 2013).


Fictional character biography

Johnson, a superhuman with seismic (earthquake-producing) powers, is the
illegitimate daughter of Calvin Zabo, the supervillain known as Mister
Hyde. Taken in by S.H.I.E.L.D., she is under the careful eye of its
longtime executive director, Nick Fury, even after the latter's
defection from the agency during the events of the Secret War series.
Daisy herself was a participant in this incident, where Fury used
trickery, lies and outright brainwashing in order to secure a superhero
team to overthrow the legitimate government of Latveria. This later
resulted in a terror attack on American soil; Daisy destroys the cyborg
leader. She possesses a "Level 10" security clearance, the only known
agent aside from Fury and the Black Widow (Natasha Romanova) to do so.

In her most visible action, Johnson has helped to defeat the powerful
mutant leader Magneto by inducing a vibration in his brain that made him
lose consciousness. This was during a three-way confrontation with the
X-Men, Avengers and the "Collective" - a powered being carrying
thousands of mutant energy signatures. Daisy states in this appearance
that if she were to join the superhero team the Avengers, she would
adopt the moniker "Quake".

The Avengers had splintered due to the events of Civil War, and she is
later seen reunited with Nick Fury, in disguise, who gives her new
orders to recruit the descendants of various villains and heroes in
order to assist him with the threat against the Skrulls in their Secret
Invasion. Taking on the name Quake, she and her teammates attack the
Skrulls during their invasion of Manhattan. The team becomes a part
of Fury's Secret Warriors, with Daisy acting as field leader of the
Caterpillars.

While investigating Norman Osborn's escape from the Raft, Johnson is
drafted by Captain America into the Avengers under her superhero name
Quake. She is tasked with tracking down how Osborn appeared via hologram
in the middle of a supposedly secure press conference. Daisy takes
over as director of S.H.I.E.L.D. when Nick Fury fully retires and his
son joins as an agent. Maria Hill is the Acting Director of
S.H.I.E.L.D., while Johnson is still considered Director of
S.H.I.E.L.D. Johnson was indefinitely suspended after launching an
unsanctioned operation to assassinate Andrew Forson, the Scientist
Supreme, leader of the supposedly legitimate A.I.M. Island. Hill is
promoted to Director in her place.

In the S.H.I.E.L.D._ series, Daisy later reveals to her father that she
has uncovered the origin of her abilities: she is an Inhuman whose
genetic abilities were activated by her father's unstable DNA. The
nickname "Skye", Daisy's original name from the show, is also introduced
to comics as Coulson's affectionate name for her.


Powers and abilities

Daisy generates powerful waves of vibrations which can produce effects
resembling those of earthquakes. She is immune to any harmful effects of
the vibrations. She also has or was given a form of psychic shielding.

She's also a superb hand-to-hand combatant, skilled all-around athlete,
and excellent marksman. She was a leading espionage agent, adept at
undercover assignments.

Her training under Fury enables her to target her seismic waves with
pinpoint accuracy, causing targeted objects to vibrate themselves apart,
from the inside out. This is shown in her being able to prevent the
detonation of an antimatter bomb implanted in the body of Lucia von
Bardas by destroying its power supply, and exploding the heart of
Wolverine while in his chest, to halt an enraged attack on S.H.I.E.L.D.
Director Nick Fury.


Other versions

During the "Age of Ultron" storyline (which took place in an alternate
reality where Ultron nearly annihilated the human race), Daisy Johnson
is among the superheroes in the resistance against Ultron.

Quake has appeared alongside Tigra, Wonder Man, and The Vision in the
Ultimate line of comics. It is later revealed that prior to becoming
Quake, Daisy Johnson was a S.H.I.E.L.D. cadet who was discharged from
the organization after fighting back against an attempted sexual assault
from a superior. She was then approached by Nick Fury, who offered her
superpowers in exchange for joining his West Coast Ultimates. The
project was shut down and later reactivated by a corrupt California
governor who sent them after the Ultimates. Quake decided to
surrender for the greater good and tell President Steve Rogers the whole
plan, who managed to put an end to it along with the rest of the
Ultimates.


In other media

[Chloe Bennet as Daisy "Skye" Johnson from the television series Agents
of S.H.I.E.L.D._]

Television

-   Daisy Johnson appears in the animated series The Avengers: Earth's
    Mightiest Heroes, voiced by Lacey Chabert. The character works
    for Nick Fury, and appears in the episodes "Who Do You Trust?" and
    "Avengers Assemble".
-   Chloe Bennet appears as a series regular in the live-action series
    Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._ playing a character called Skye, a computer
    hacker recruited into S.H.I.E.L.D. by Phil Coulson. In the show's
    second season, the character's birth name is revealed to be
    Daisy Johnson. Executive producer Maurissa Tancharoen confirmed the
    character is an adaptation of Daisy Johnson, as well as an
    Inhuman. On making Daisy an Inhuman for the  Cinematic
    Universe, executive producer Jed Whedon said, "We’ve created a
    different origin for her... We merged those two ideas together also
    because there are such rabid fans out there that if we stick to
    original story points from the comics, they will smell story points
    from miles away. Those two factors led us to coming up with a
    different notion of how she got her powers."

Video games

-   Quake is a playable character in the online Facebook game :
    Avengers Alliance.
-   Quake is a playable character in : Future Fight; her Agents
    of S.H.I.E.L.D._ look is included as an alternate costume.
-   Quake is a playable character in  Puzzle Quest.

