DAREDEVIL is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books
published by . Daredevil was created by writer-editor Stan
Lee and artist Bill Everett, with an unspecified amount of input from
Jack Kirby. The character first appeared in Daredevil #1 (April
1964).

Daredevil's origin story relates that while living in the Hell's Kitchen
neighborhood of New York City, MATT MURDOCK is blinded by a radioactive
substance that falls from an oncoming vehicle while pushing a man to
safety from the oncoming truck. While he no longer can see, the
radioactive exposure heightens his remaining senses beyond normal human
ability and gives him a "radar sense". His father, a boxer named Jack
Murdock, supports him as he grows up, though Jack is later killed by
gangsters after refusing to throw a fight. After donning a yellow and
dark red costume (later all dark red), Matt seeks out revenge against
his father's killers as the superhero Daredevil, fighting against his
many enemies, including Bullseye and Kingpin. He also becomes a
lawyer. Daredevil's nickname is "The Man Without Fear".

While Daredevil had been home to the work of comic-book artists such
as Everett, Kirby, Wally Wood, John Romita Sr., and Gene Colan, among
others, Frank Miller's influential tenure on the title in the early
1980s cemented the character as a popular and influential part of the
 Universe. Daredevil has since appeared in various forms of media
including several animated series, video games and merchandise, and the
2003 feature-length film Daredevil, where he was portrayed by Ben
Affleck. Charlie Cox plays Daredevil in 's Daredevil, a
live-action television series on Netflix that premiered on April 10,
2015.


Publication history

1960s

The character debuted in ' Daredevil #1 (cover date April
1964), created by writer-editor Stan Lee and artist Bill Everett,
with character design input from Jack Kirby, who devised Daredevil's
billy club. When Everett turned in his first-issue pencils extremely
late,  production manager Sol Brodsky and Spider-Man co-creator
Steve Ditko inked a large variety of different backgrounds, a "lot of
backgrounds and secondary figures on the fly and cobbled the cover and
the splash page together from Kirby's original concept drawing".

Writer and comics historian Mark Evanier has concluded (but cannot
confirm) that Kirby designed the basic image of Daredevil's costume,
though Everett modified it. The character's original costume design
was a combination of black, yellow, and red, reminiscent of acrobat
tights. Wally Wood, known for his 1950s EC Comics stories, penciled
and inked issues #5–10, introducing Daredevil's modern red costume in
issue #7. However, issue #7 is mainly noted for Daredevil's
valiant battle against the Sub-Mariner, and has become one of the most
iconic and reprinted stories of the series.

Issue #12 began a brief run by Jack Kirby (layouts) and John Romita Sr.
The issue marked Romita's return to superhero penciling after a decade
of working exclusively as a romance-comic artist for . Romita had felt
he no longer wanted to pencil, in favor of being solely an inker. He
recalled in 1999,

Romita later elaborated:

When Romita left to take over The Amazing Spider-Man, Lee gave
Daredevil to what would be the character's first signature artist,
Gene Colan, who began with issue #20 (Sept. 1966). Though #20
identifies Colan as a fill-in penciller, Romita's work load prevented
him from returning to the title, and Colan ended up penciling all
but three issues through #100 (June 1973), plus the 1967 annual,
followed by ten issues sprinkled from 1974–1979. He would return again
for an eight-issue run in 1997.

Lee never gave Colan a full script for an issue of Daredevil; instead,
he would tell him the plot, and Colan would tape record the conversation
to refer to while drawing the issue, leaving Lee to add the script in
afterwards. Though Colan is consistently credited as penciler only,
Lee would typically give him the freedom to fill in details of the plot
as he saw fit. Lee explained "If I would tell Gene who the villain was
and what the problem was, how the problem should be resolved and where
it would take place, Gene could fill in all the details. Which made it
very interesting for me to write because when I got the artwork back and
had to put in the copy, I was seeing things that I'd not expected."
The 31-issue Lee/Colan run on the series included Daredevil #47, in
which Murdock defends a blind Vietnam veteran against a frameup; Lee has
cited it as the story he is most proud of out of his entire
career. With issue #51, Lee turned the writing chores over to
Roy Thomas (who succeeded him on a number of 's titles), but would
remain on board as editor for another 40 issues.

The first issue covered both the character's origins and his desire for
justice on the man who had killed his father, boxer "Battling Jack"
Murdock, who raised young Matthew Murdock in the Hell's Kitchen
neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City. Jack instills in Matt the
importance of education and nonviolence with the aim of seeing his son
become a better man than himself. In the course of saving a blind man
from the path of an oncoming truck, Matt is blinded by a radioactive
substance that falls from the vehicle. The radioactive exposure
heightens his remaining senses beyond normal human thresholds, enabling
him to detect the shape and location of objects around him. In order to
support his son, Jack Murdock returns to boxing under the Fixer, a known
gangster, and the only man willing to contract the aging boxer. When he
refuses to throw a fight because his son is in the audience, he is
killed by one of the Fixer's men. Adorned in a yellow and black costume
made from his father's boxing robes and using his superhuman abilities,
Matt confronts the killers as the superhero Daredevil, unintentionally
causing the Fixer to have a fatal heart attack.

Daredevil would embark on a series of adventures involving such villains
as the Owl, Stilt-Man, the Gladiator, and the Enforcers. In issue #16
(May 1966), he meets Spider-Man, a character who would later be one of
his greatest hero friends. A letter from Spider-Man unintentionally
exposed Daredevil's secret identity, compelling him to adopt a third
identity as his twin brother Mike Murdock, whose carefree,
wisecracking personality much more closely resembled that of the
Daredevil guise than the stern, studious, and emotionally withdrawn Matt
Murdock did. The "Mike Murdock" scheme was used to highlight the
character's quasi-multiple personality disorder (he at one point wonders
whether Matt or Mike/Daredevil "is the real me"), but it proved
confusing to readers and was dropped in issues #41–42, with Daredevil
faking Mike Murdock's death and claiming he had trained a replacement
Daredevil. Murdock reveals his secret identity to his girlfriend Karen
Page in issue #57, although she leaves the series after the
revelation proves too much for her. This was the first of several
long-term breakups between Murdock and Page, who would prove the most
enduring of his love interests.

1970s

18-year-old Gerry Conway took over as writer with issue #72, and turned
the series in a pulp science fiction direction: a lengthy story arc
centered on a robot from thousands of years in the future trying to
change his timeline, and even long-standing arch-villain the Owl was
outfitted with futuristic weaponry and vehicles. He also moved Daredevil
to San Francisco beginning with Daredevil #86, and simultaneously
brought on the Black Widow as co-star. Conway explained, Concerning
the Black Widow, he said, "I was a fan of Natasha [Romanoff, the Black
Widow], and thought she and Daredevil would have interesting
chemistry." She served as Daredevil's co-star and love interest from
#81–124 (Nov. 1971–Aug. 1975), of which #93-108 were cover titled
Daredevil and the Black Widow. The series had been suffering from
slowly declining popularity, and in November 1971  announced that
Daredevil and Iron Man would be combined into a single series, but
the addition of the Black Widow revitalized interest in the comic.
Due to the Comics Code Authority's restrictions on the depiction of
cohabitation, the stories made explicit that though Daredevil and the
Black Widow were living in the same apartment, they were sleeping on
separate floors, and that Natasha's guardian Ivan Petrovich was always
close at hand.

Steve Gerber came on board with issue #97, initially scripting over
Conway's plots, but Gene Colan's long stint as Daredevil's penciler had
come to an end. Gerber recollected, "Gene and I did a few issues
together, but Gene was basically trying to move on at that point. He'd
just started the Dracula book, and he'd been doing Daredevil for God
knows how many years. I think he wanted to do something else." Jann
Wenner, the co-founder and publisher of the Rolling Stone music
magazine appeared in Daredevil #100 (June 1973) by Gerber and
Colan. After six issues with fill-in pencilers, including several
with Don Heck, Bob Brown took over as penciller.

Tony Isabella succeeded Gerber as writer, but editor Len Wein
disapproved of his take on the series and sent him off after only five
issues, planning to write it himself. Instead, he ended up handing
both writing and editing jobs to his friend Marv Wolfman with issue
#124, which introduced inker Klaus Janson to the title. It also wrote
the Black Widow out of the series and returned Daredevil to Hell's
Kitchen; the post-Conway writers had all felt that Daredevil worked
better as a solo hero, and had been working to gradually remove the
Widow from the series. Wolfman promptly introduced the lively but
emotionally fragile Heather Glenn to replace the Black Widow as
Daredevil's love interest. Wolfman's 20-issue run included the
introduction of one of Daredevil's most popular villains, Bullseye,
and a story arc in which the Jester uses computer-generated images to
hoodwink the mass media. He was dissatisfied with his work and quit,
later explaining, "I felt DD needed something more than I was giving
him. I was never very happy with my DD—I never found the thing that made
him mine the way Frank Miller did a year or two later. So I was trying
to find things to do that interested me and therefore, I hoped, the
readers. Ultimately, I couldn't find anything that made DD unique to me
and asked off the title." His departure coincided with Brown's death
from leukemia.

With issue #144, Jim Shooter became the writer and was joined by a
series of short-term pencilers, including Gil Kane, who had been
penciling most of Daredevil's covers since #80 but had never before
worked on the comic's interior. Shooter and artist Carmine Infantino
introduced Paladin in issue #150 (Jan. 1978). The series's once
solid sales began dropping during this period, and was downgraded to
bi-monthly status with issue #147. Shooter still had difficulty keeping
up with the schedule, and the writing chores were shortly turned over to
Roger McKenzie.

McKenzie's work on Daredevil reflected his background in horror comics,
and the stories and even the character himself took on a much darker
tone: Daredevil battled a personification of death, one of his
archenemies was bifurcated by a tombstone, and a re-envisioning of
Daredevil's origin showed him using stalker tactics to drive the Fixer
to his fatal heart attack. McKenzie created chain-smoking Daily
Bugle reporter Ben Urich, who deduces Daredevil's secret identity over
the course of issues #153–163, and had Daredevil using the criminal
underworld of Hell's Kitchen as an information network, adding several
small-time crooks to the supporting cast.

Halfway through his run, McKenzie was joined by penciler Frank Miller,
who had previously drawn Daredevil in The Spectacular Spider-Man #27
(Feb. 1979), with issue #158 (May 1979).

In a story arc overlapping Wolfman, Shooter, and McKenzie's runs on the
series, Daredevil reveals his identity to Glenn and becomes partially
responsible for the suicide of her father; their relationship would
persist, but would prove increasingly harmful to both of them. Though
the Black Widow returned for a dozen issues (#155–166) and attempted to
rekindle her romance with Daredevil, he ultimately rejects her in favor
of Glenn.

1980s

Sales had been declining since the end of the Wolfman/Brown run, and by
the time Miller became Daredevil's penciler, the series was in danger of
cancellation. Moreover, Miller disliked Roger McKenzie's scripts, and
Jim Shooter (who had since become 's editor-in-chief) had to talk
him out of quitting. Seeking to appease Miller, and impressed by
a short backup feature he had written, new editor Denny O'Neil fired
McKenzie so that Miller could write the series. The last issue of
McKenzie's run plugs a two-part story which was pulled from publication,
as its mature content encountered resistance from the Comics Code
Authority, though part one eventually saw print in Daredevil #183, by
which time Code standards had relaxed.

[Frank Miller's antihero depiction of Daredevil proved to be the most
popular take on the character. Cover of Daredevil #184 (July 1982).
Art by Frank Miller and Klaus Janson.] Miller continued the title in a
similar vein to McKenzie. Resuming the drastic metamorphosis the
previous writer had begun, Miller took the step of essentially ignoring
all of Daredevil's continuity prior to his run on the series; on the
occasions where older villains and supporting cast were used, their
characterizations and history with Daredevil were reworked or
overwritten. Most prominently, dedicated and loving father Jack Murdock
was reimagined as a drunkard who physically abused his son Matt,
entirely revising Daredevil's reasons for becoming a lawyer.
Spider-Man villain Kingpin was introduced as Daredevil's new nemesis,
displacing most of his large rogues gallery. Daredevil himself was
gradually developed into an antihero. In issue #181 (April 1982), he
attempts to murder one of his arch-enemies by throwing him off a tall
building; when the villain survives as a quadriplegic, he breaks into
his hospital room and tries to scare him to death by playing a two-man
variation on Russian roulette with a secretly unloaded gun. Comics
historian Les Daniels noted that "Almost immediately, [Miller] began to
attract attention with his terse tales of urban crime." Miller's
revamping of the title was controversial among fans, but it clicked with
new readers, and sales began soaring, the comic returning to monthly
status just three issues after Miller came on as writer.

Miller introduced ninjas into the Daredevil canon, bringing a martial
arts aspect to Daredevil's fighting skills, and introducing previously
unseen characters who had played a major part in his youth: Stick,
leader of the ninja clan the Chaste, who had been Murdock's sensei after
he was blinded; a rival clan called the Hand; and Elektra, an
ex-girlfriend turned lethal ninja assassin. This was a drastic
change for a character once called "the sightless swashbuckler". Elektra
was killed fighting Bullseye in issue #181 (April 1982), an issue which
saw brisk sales.

With #185, inker Janson began doing the pencils over Miller's layouts,
and after #191 Miller left the series entirely. O'Neil switched from
editor to writer. O'Neil was not enthusiastic about the switch, later
saying "I took the gig mostly because there didn't seem to be (m)any
other viable candidates for it." He continued McKenzie and Miller's
noir take on the series, but backed away from the antihero depiction of
the character by having him not only spare Bullseye's life, but express
guilt over his two previous attempts to kill him. Janson left shortly
after Miller, replaced initially by penciler William Johnson and inker
Danny Bulanadi, who were both supplanted by David Mazzucchelli. Miller
returned as the title's regular writer, co-writing #226 with O'Neil.
Miller and Mazzucchelli crafted the acclaimed "Daredevil: Born Again"
storyline in #227–233. In the Born Again storyline Karen Page, who
had not been seen since Marv Wolfman's run a decade before, returns as a
heroin-addicted porn star, and sells Daredevil's secret identity for
drug money. The Kingpin acquires the information and in an act of
revenge, orchestrates a frameup which costs Murdock his attorney's
license. Miller ended the arc on a positive note, with Murdock reuniting
with both Karen Page and Maggie, the mother he thought dead, now a nun.
Miller intended to produce an additional two-part story with artist Walt
Simonson but the story was never completed and remains unpublished.

Three fill-in issues followed before Steve Englehart (under the
pseudonym "John Harkness") took the post of writer, only to lose
it after one issue due to a plot conflict with one of the fill-ins. Ann
Nocenti was brought on as a fill-in writer but became the series's
longest-running regular writer, with a four-and-a-quarter-year run from
#238–291 (Jan. 1987 – April 1991). The shuffle of short-term artists
continued for her first year, until John Romita Jr. joined as penciller
from #250–282 (Jan. 1988 – Jul. 1990) alongside inker Al Williamson, who
stayed on through #300.

The team returned Murdock to law by co-founding with Page a nonprofit
drug and legal clinic, while Nocenti crafted stories confronting
feminism, drug abuse, nuclear proliferation, and animal rights-inspired
terrorism. She introduced the antagonist Typhoid Mary, and in issues
#262–265 used the Inferno event as a backdrop for the collapse of
Daredevil's life: the clinic is destroyed, Page goes missing after
learning of his affair with Mary Walker, and Walker reveals herself as
the alter ego of Typhoid Mary. Murdock subsequently becomes a drifter in
upstate New York, an especially controversial move in Nocenti's run, as
it marked the first time the character had been taken outside of an
urban environment. She ended her run with a positive turn in Murdock's
fortunes: he returns to Hell's Kitchen, regains his sense of self,
reconciles with Foggy Nelson, and resolves to seek out Karen Page.

1990s

New writer D. G. Chichester and penciler Lee Weeks continued from where
Nocenti left off, with Murdock resuming his friendship with Foggy
Nelson, struggling to re-win the heart of Karen Page, appealing the
revocation of his attorney's license, and bonding more deeply than ever
with Hell's Kitchen. Chichester's focus on Daredevil's relationship with
New York City went so far as to have two issues devoted entirely to
Daredevil defending New Yorkers from ordinary criminals and even simple
accidents. The critically acclaimed "Last Rites" arc from #297–300 saw
Daredevil regaining his attorney's license and finally bringing the
Kingpin to justice.

Frank Miller returned to the character and his origins with the 1993
five-issue Daredevil: The Man Without Fear miniseries. With artist
John Romita Jr., Miller expanded his retcon of the life and death of
Murdock's father, "Battling Jack" Murdock, and Murdock's first
encounters with the Kingpin and Foggy Nelson. The role of Stick in
the genesis of Daredevil was expanded, as was Murdock's doomed love
affair with Elektra.

The creative team of Chichester and penciler Scott McDaniel changed the
status quo with their "Fall From Grace" storyline in issues #319–325
(Aug. 1993 – Feb. 1994). Elektra, who was resurrected in #190 but
had not been seen since, finally returned. An injured Daredevil creates
a more protective costume from biomimetic materials: red and gray with
white armor on the shoulders and knee pads. Revamped billy clubs could
attach to form nunchucks or a bo staff. His secret identity becomes
public knowledge, leading to him faking his own death and assuming the
new identity of "Jack Batlin". This new identity and costume lasts for
several story arcs, while Murdock finds a way to convince the world that
he is not, in fact, secretly Daredevil (courtesy of a double). A short
stint by J. M. DeMatteis returned Daredevil to his traditional red
costume and Matt Murdock identity.

Under writers Karl Kesel and later Joe Kelly, the title gained a lighter
tone, with Daredevil returning to the lighthearted, wisecracking hero
depicted by earlier writers. Matt and Foggy (who now knows of Matt's
dual identities) join a law firm run by Foggy's mother, Rosalind Sharpe.
Gene Colan returned to the series during this time, but though initially
enthusiastic about drawing Daredevil again, he quit after seven issues,
complaining that Kesel and Kelly's scripts were too "retro".

In 1998, Daredevil{{'}}s numbering was rebooted, with the title
"canceled" with issue #380 and revived a month later as part of the
 Knights imprint. Joe Quesada drew the new series, written by
filmmaker Kevin Smith. Its first story arc, "Guardian Devil",
depicts Daredevil struggling to protect a child whom he is told could
either be the Messiah or the Anti-Christ. Murdock experiences a crisis
of faith exacerbated by the discovery that Karen Page has AIDS (later
revealed to be a hoax) and her subsequent death at Bullseye's hands.

Smith was succeeded by writer-artist David Mack, who contributed the
seven-issue "Parts of a Hole" (vol. 2, #9–15). The arc introduced Maya
Lopez, also known as Echo, a deaf martial artist.

2000s

David Mack brought independent-comics colleague Brian Michael Bendis to
 to co-write the following arc, "Wake Up" in vol. 2, #16–19 (May
2001 – August 2001), which follows reporter Ben Urich as he
investigates the aftereffects of a fight between Daredevil and the new
Leap-Frog. Following Mack and Bendis were Back to the Future
screenwriter Bob Gale and artists Phil Winslade and David Ross for the
story "Playing to the Camera". Mack continued to contribute covers,
while Brain Michael Bendis wrote further stories such as Daredevil:
Ninja.

The 2001 Daredevil: Yellow miniseries presented another take on
Daredevil's origins using letters written to Karen Page after her death.
The series depicts the early rivalry between Matt Murdock and Foggy
Nelson for Page's affection, and incorporates many events depicted in
the earliest issues of "Daredevil". The supervillains the Owl and the
Purple Man appear as antagonists. In this story, Daredevil credits Page
with coining the phrase "The Man without Fear", and she suggests to
Daredevil he wear all maroon instead of dark red and yellow.

Issue #26 (Dec. 2001) brought back Brian Michael Bendis, working this
time with artist Alex Maleev. IGN called Bendis's four-year-run "one of
the greatest creative tenures in  history" and commented that it
rivaled Frank Miller's work. Developments in this run included the
introduction of romantic interest and future wife Milla Donovan, the
outing once again of Murdock's secret identity, the reemergence of the
Kingpin, and Daredevil's surrender to the FBI.

The impact of his exposure as Daredevil continued to be used as a plot
point by both Bendis and writer Ed Brubaker and artist Michael Lark, who
became the new creative team with Daredevil vol. 2, #82 (Feb.
2006), no longer under the  Knights imprint.

[Danny Rand as Daredevil. Art by Michael Lark.] Brubaker's first story
arc had a new character masquerading as Daredevil in Hell's Kitchen.
Murdock later discovered the ersatz Daredevil is his friend Danny Rand,
the superhero Iron Fist.

The series returned to its original numbering with issue #500 (Oct.
2009), which followed vol. 2, #119 (Aug. 2009). New writer Andy
Diggle revised the status quo, with Daredevil assuming
leadership of the ninja army the Hand. Daredevil later appeared in the
one-shot Dark Reign: The List – Daredevil.

2010s

Following this came the crossover story arc "Shadowland", in which
Daredevil is possessed by a demon. Murdock then leaves New York, leaving
his territory in the hands of the Black Panther in the briefly retitled
series' Black Panther: Man Without Fear #513. Murdock finds himself
renewed in the miniseries Daredevil: Reborn #1–4 (March–July 2011).

In July 2011, Daredevil relaunched with vol. 3, #1 (Sept. 2011),
with writer Mark Waid and penciler Paolo Rivera. Waid said he was
interested in "tweaking the adventure-to-depression ratio a bit and
letting Matt win again", as well as emphasizing the character's
powers and perception of the physical world. In the premiere issue,
Murdock finds he can no longer serve as a trial lawyer due to past
allegations of his being Daredevil causing a case he represents in court
to turn into a media circus. Two issues later, Nelson and Murdock have
developed a new business strategy of serving as consulting counselors,
by teaching clients how to represent themselves in court. Daredevil
joins the New Avengers in a story written by former Daredevil series
writer Brian Michael Bendis. Daredevil appeared as a regular
character in the 2010–2013 New Avengers series in issues #16-34 (Nov.
2011 - Jan. 2013). At one point, Foggy begins to question Matt's sanity,
ultimately leading to a fallout between the two. They reconcile once
the truth is discovered. Daredevil vol. 3 ended at issue #36
in February 2014, in which Matt is forced to publicly reveal his
Daredevil identity, resulting in his being disbarred by New York and
prompting him to again relocate to San Francisco.

Waid and Chris Samnee followed this up with Infinite Comics' Daredevil:
Road Warrior weekly digital miniseries, which focused on an
adventure during Matt's trip to San Francisco. It was reprinted as issue
0.1 in Daredevil volume 4, which launched under Waid and Samnee
with a new issue #1 (March 2014) as part of the All-New  NOW!
storyline centered on Matt's new life in San Francisco.

Daredevil volume 4 officially ended with issue #18 in September 2015.
A new volume began as part of the All-New, All-Different 
branding, written by Charles Soule with art by Ron Garney with the first
two issues released in December 2015. In this series, Matt returns
to New York, where he now works as an Assistant District Attorney. He
will have a redesigned costume and a new apprentice in Samuel Chung, an
illegal immigrant who has been living in New York's Chinatown since he
was a child, who has taken up the codename Blindspot. Also due to a
method Matt used which had not yet been disclosed, he has somehow caused
for the world to forget that he is Daredevil, with Foggy being the only
exception, enabling him to be re-instated as a New York
Attorney.


Powers and abilities

Although the character is blind, his remaining four senses function with
superhuman accuracy and sensitivity, giving him abilities far beyond the
limits of a sighted person. Few characters know that the hero cannot
see. Daredevil developed a radar sense, which is similar to
echolocation. Writer/co-creator Stan Lee said that he was worried that
blind people would be offended at how far he exaggerated the way a blind
person's remaining senses are enhanced, but that his fears were assuaged
by letters from organizations such as The Lighthouse for the Blind which
said that blind people greatly enjoyed having Daredevil comics read to
them.

When Frank Miller expanded most of Daredevil's abilities, he attempted
to make them "extraordinary enough to be exciting, but not on par with
Superman", noting Superman's distinctly unbelievable powers. When
Miller joined the title in 1979, the first thing he did to the character
was "revamp" his radar sense and made it less distinct and more
believable; he wanted Daredevil to have the "proximity" sense that some
martial artists claim to have. Due to the character's sensitive
sense of touch, Daredevil can read by passing his fingers over the
letters on a page though laminated pages prevent him from reading
the ink. Daredevil has commonly used his superhuman hearing to
serve as a polygraph for interrogation by listening for changes in a
person's heartbeat. This ability can be fooled if the other person's
heart is not beating at a natural rate, such as if they have an
artificial pacemaker.

Just as Daredevil's other senses are stronger, they are also sensitive;
his main weakness is his vulnerability to powerful sounds or odors that
can temporarily weaken his radar sense. This weakness is often used
to immobilize Daredevil. Alternately, the lack of taste or smell
can be used against him, as in one instance of a hallucinogenic drug so
designed so that Daredevil could not tell he was drugged. His
senses are highly acute, capable of sensing the minor atmospheric
disturbance created moments before a teleporting character appears.

While his radar sense mostly compensates for his blindness, it has
certain limitations. He cannot perceive color without touch, and he can
only read printed matter if the ink is raised enough for his sense of
touch. Most photographs, televisions, and computer screens are blank to
him.

Though he has no superhuman physical attributes beyond an enhanced sense
of balance, Daredevil is a master of martial arts. Having been
trained by Stick, Daredevil is a master hand-to-hand combatant. His
typical moves are unique blends of the martial arts of ninjutsu, aiki
jujutsu, jujitsu, kung fu, capoeira, judo, aikido, wrestling, and stick
fighting combined with American-style boxing while making full use of
his gymnastics capabilities.

Daredevil's signature weapon is his specially designed baton, which he
created. Disguised as a blind man's cane in civilian garb, it is a
multi-purpose weapon and tool that contains 30 feet of aircraft-control
cable connected to a case-hardened steel grappling hook. Internal
mechanisms allow the cable to be neatly wound and unwound, while a
powerful spring launches the grapnel. The handle can be straightened for
use when throwing. The club can be split into two parts, one of which is
a fighting baton, the other of which ends in a curved hook.

In his civilian identity, Murdock is a skilled and respected New York
attorney. He is a skilled detective, tracker, and interrogation expert,
as well as being an expert marksman.


Other versions

In addition to his mainstream incarnation, Daredevil has been depicted
in other fictional universes, including  2099,  Noir and the
Ultimate  Universe.


Reception

Daredevil was named Empire's 37th Greatest Comic Book Character,
citing him as "a compelling, layered and visually striking
character". Empire praised Frank Miller's era, and referenced
Brian Michael Bendis, Jeph Loeb, and Kevin Smith's tenures on the
series. Wizard magazine ranked Daredevil 21st among their list of
the 200 Greatest Comic Characters of All Time, and comic book
readers polled through the website Comic Book Resources voted the
character the third best of the  stable. IGN ranked
Daredevil as the third best series from  in 2006 and
in 2011 ranked Daredevil as #10 on their list of "Top 100 Comic Book
Heroes".

The series has won the following awards as well:

-   Daredevil #227: "Apocalypse", Best Single Issue – 1986 Kirby
    Awards
-   Daredevil: Born Again, Best Writer/Artist (single or team), Frank
    Miller and David Mazzucchelli – 1987 Kirby Awards
-   Daredevil: The Man Without Fear, Favorite Limited Comic-Book
    Series – 1993 Comics Buyer's Guide Fan Award
-   Daredevil by writer Brian Michael Bendis and artist Alex Maleev,
    2003 Eisner Awards (for works published in 2002)
-   Daredevil, Best Writer, Ed Brubaker – 2007 Harvey Award
-   Daredevil #7, Best Single Issue (or One-Shot) – 2012 Eisner Awards
    (for works published in 2011)
-   Daredevil by Mark Waid, Marcos Martín, Paolo Rivera, and Joe
    Rivera, Best Continuing Series – 2012 Eisner Awards
-   David Mazzucchelli's Daredevil Born Again: Artist's Edition,
    edited by Scott Dunbier (IDW),Best Archival Collection – 2013 Eisner
    Awards
-   Chris Samnee, Daredevil v3, Best Penciller/Inker – 2013 Eisner
    Awards


Supporting characters

Throughout the core Daredevil series, many characters have had an
influence in Matt Murdock's life. His father, "Battlin' Jack" Murdock
instills in Matt the importance of education and nonviolence with the
aim of seeing his son become a better man than himself. He always
encouraged Matt to study, rather than fight like him. Jack forbade his
son from undertaking any kind of physical training. It is his
father's murder that prompts the super-powered character to become a
superhero, fighting gangsters. He was trained by an old blind ninja
master named Stick following his childhood accident.

Matt Murdock's closest friend is Franklin "Foggy" Nelson, his college
roommate, sidekick, and law partner. Their relationship in the
early years of the series was fraught with tension due to Nelson's sense
of inferiority to Murdock as a lawyer and as a target for the affections
of their secretary, Karen Page. They frequently argued over Murdock's
preference for defending supervillains, as Nelson's enthusiasm is for
corporate law. The pudgy and fallible Nelson has often been used by
writers for lightheartedness and even comic relief. As a superhero, one
of Daredevil's best friends is the hero Spider-Man; with his enhanced
senses, Murdock was able to physically identify Spider-Man on their
first meeting, and Spider-Man in turn learned his secret identity
some time after. Due to the events of the "One More Day" storyline,
Murdock no longer knows Spider-Man's secret identity, and since then
refused to relearn it due to the potential danger involved. Iron
Fist would later become one of his greatest friends, and at one point
took on the role of Daredevil himself. Jessica Jones, a former
superhero turned private investigator acts as a bodyguard for Matt
Murdock in his civilian life. Her husband, Luke Cage, is a friend of
Daredevil as well. Maya Lopez, a deaf woman and skilled martial
artist, is a friend of Daredevil after he fought her and convinced her
that he did not murder her father, because she was being manipulated by
the Kingpin, who was responsible. Ben Urich, a reporter for the Daily
Bugle discovered Daredevil's identity and eventually becomes his friend
as well, though during his identity dispute Daredevil decided to
end his "secret professional relationship" with Urich to avoid getting
Urich mixed up in his problems and being used against him.

Daredevil has a convoluted and often tortured love life. One of
Daredevil's more notable love interests is Elektra, an assassin who
would later be killed. In the 2000s, Murdock marries a woman named
Milla Donovan, although one of Daredevil's enemies drives her to
insanity.

Daredevil enemies

In his early years, Daredevil fought a number of costumed supervillains,
the first of these being Electro, a prominent Spider-Man foe, in
Daredevil #2. A number of recurring villains would be introduced over
the years, such as the Owl, the Purple Man, Mr. Fear,
Stilt-Man, Gladiator, the Jester, the Man-Bull, and
Death-Stalker. The supervillain duo of the Cobra and Mr. Hyde have
frequently clashed with Daredevil, and Hyde has fought Daredevil alone
on several occasions. The psychotic assassin Bullseye was introduced by
Marv Wolfman in issue #131, and was a frequent antagonist over the
next six years of the series.

Beginning with Frank Miller's run on Daredevil, his traditional rogues
gallery was used less often, and The Kingpin became Daredevil's
arch-enemy. Like the Purple Man, Death-Stalker, Assassin, and several
others, the Kingpin has long known Daredevil's secret identity. His run
as the series's central villain ended with issue #300, but he continues
to menace Daredevil on occasion. Elektra made her debut as a bounty
hunter, and though her time as part of Daredevil's rogues gallery was
brief (spanning barely a year of the series), her romantic past with him
is an important part of the mythos. In Daredevil #254, Ann Nocenti
introduced Typhoid Mary, an assassin for the Kingpin with an identity
disorder, who would become a prominent Daredevil foe. The Punisher,
vigilante Frank Castle, is one of Daredevil's most prolific antagonists
and at times a reluctant ally.


In other media

Television

Live action

-   In 1975, Angela Bowie secured the TV rights to Daredevil and the
    Black Widow for a duration of one year and planned a TV series based
    on the two characters. Bowie had photographer Terry O'Neill take a
    series of pictures of herself as Black Widow and actor Ben
    Carruthers as Daredevil (with wardrobe by Natasha Kornilkoff) to
    shop the project around to producers, but the project never came to
    fruition.
-   In 1983, ABC planned a live-action Daredevil pilot. Academy
    Award-winning writer Stirling Silliphant completed the draft of the
    program, but it was not aired.
-   Daredevil, portrayed by Rex Smith, appears in NBC's 1989 live action
    television film The Trial of the Incredible Hulk. When David
    Banner (Bill Bixby) gets arrested, Matt Murdock helps to prove
    Banner's innocence. Daredevil tells his origins to Banner, which in
    this version involves Murdock being inspired by a police officer to
    become a hero. Later, with the help of Hulk, he battles the Kingpin
    (John Rhys-Davies), called only Wilson Fisk here. While
    remaining fairly true to the source material of the Daredevil
    comic books, the largest change was that Daredevil's traditional
    costume, including his horns, was replaced with a black
    ninja-like outfit. Daredevil would later wear a similar black outfit
    in Frank Miller and John Romita Jr's 1993′s Daredevil: The Man
    Without Fear miniseries, as well as the  Studios TV series.

[Charlie Cox as Daredevil in the live action TV series Daredevil.]

-   On November 6, 2013, Disney and  announced that a new
    Daredevil television series based on the character would be
    released on Netflix. In December 2013,  confirmed that
    Drew Goddard would be the executive producer and showrunner for the
    series, and would write and direct the first episode. By May
    24, 2014, Goddard had departed as showrunner, being replaced by
    Steven S. DeKnight. Goddard was to remain with the show as a
    consultant. On May 27, Charlie Cox was cast to star.
    Filming began in July 2014. The first season was released in
    April 2015, and the second season was released on March 18,
    2016. Cox is also set to reprise his role in The
    Defenders, a crossover miniseries.

Animation

-   Daredevil made his first animated television appearance in his true
    identity Matt Murdock and only appears in his Daredevil costume in a
    flashback, in the Spider-Man and His Amazing Friends episode
    "Attack of the Arachnoid" voiced by Frank Welker.
-   In the 1980s, ABC had planned a Daredevil animated television series
    that would have featured a guide dog named "Lightning the
    Super-Dog". Television writer Mark Evanier said in 2008
    that he was the last in a line of writers to have written a pilot
    and series bible, with his including Lightning as a guide dog
    without superpowers.

[Daredevil in the Spider-Man episode "The Man Without Fear".]

-   Daredevil appears in the 1990s Spider-Man: The Animated Series
    episodes "Framed" and "The Man Without Fear", voiced by Edward
    Albert. J. Jonah Jameson hires Matt Murdock to defend Peter
    Parker when he is framed for industrial espionage by Richard Fisk.
    These episodes were later incorporated into the direct-to-DVD
    animated film Daredevil vs Spider-Man.
-   Daredevil appears in the 1990s Fantastic Four episode "And a Blind
    Man Shall Lead Them", voiced by Bill Smitrovich. He helps the
    powerless Fantastic Four get into the Baxter Building when Doctor
    Doom takes it over.

Film

[Theatrical release poster for the live-action film Daredevil starring
Ben Affleck.]

-   In 2003, 20th Century Fox released the film Daredevil, written and
    directed by Mark Steven Johnson. Actor Ben Affleck starred as the
    title character.
-   A deleted scene in the 2005 Elektra film, later included in the
    Director's Cut, has Ben Affleck briefly reprising the role in a
    dream sequence.
-   In November 2013, Disney CEO Bob Iger stated that if 's
    Netflix TV shows such as Daredevil become popular, "It's quite
    possible that they could become feature films".

Video games

[Daredevil as he appears in : Ultimate Alliance.]

-   Daredevil made his first video game appearance in a cameo in
    Venom/Spider-Man: Separation Anxiety released in 1995. The
    character had a more expansive role as an alternate playable
    character in Spider-Man: Web of Fire, released in 1996, voiced by
    Dee Bradley Baker.
-   Daredevil appears in the 2000 Spider-Man video game, again voiced
    by Dee Bradley Baker.
-   Daredevil's largest role was as the title character in the Game Boy
    Advance game based on the 2003 film.
-   Daredevil later starred as a playable character in the 2005 
    Nemesis: Rise of the Imperfects video game, voiced by David
    Kaye.
-   Matt Murdock made a cameo appearance in The Punisher, voiced by
    Steven Blum. He appeared as the Punisher's lawyer.
-   Daredevil appeared as an unlockable character in : Ultimate
    Alliance, voiced by Cam Clarke. His costumes include his Classic,
    Original (alternate classic yellow outfit), Armored, and
     Knights. He can be unlocked by collecting five of his action
    figures.
-   Daredevil is a playable character in : Ultimate Alliance 2,
    voiced by Brian Bloom. In the Wii and PS2 versions, he is exclusive
    to the Anti-registration side and boss for the
    Pro-registration side.
-   Matt Murdock makes a cameo appearance in Chris Redfield's ending for
     vs. Capcom 3: Fate of Two Worlds, where he is shown acting
    as the prosecutor at the trial of Albert Wesker. In addition, on the
    Daily Bugle stage, there is an advertisement billboard for "Nelson &
    Murdock – Attorneys at Law". Daredevil appears in the Shadowland
    stage in Ultimate  vs. Capcom 3 in his black outfit.
    Additionally, a zombified version of Daredevil makes a cameo in
    Frank West's ending of Ultimate  vs Capcom 3.
-   Daredevil is a playable character in  Super Hero Squad
    Online, with Brian Bloom reprising his role from : Ultimate
    Alliance 2. His attires are his standard red outfit, his classic
    yellow outfit or his armored outfit.
-   A Daredevil outfit is available as downloadable content for
    LittleBigPlanet, as part of " Costume Kit 1".
-   Daredevil is a playable character in the Facebook game :
    Avengers Alliance.
-   Daredevil is a playable character in the MMORPG 
    Heroes, again voiced by Brian Bloom.
-   Daredevil appears as a playable character in Lego  Super
    Heroes, with Steven Blum reprising his role from The
    Punisher video game.
-   Daredevil appears as a playable character in  Contest of
    Champions.
-   Daredevil appears as a playable character in : Future Fight.
-   Daredevil appears as a playable character in Lego 's
    Avengers voiced by Roger Craig Smith.
-   Daredevil appears as a playable character in : Avengers
    Alliance 2.

Toys

-   Daredevil is featured in the  Legends (third series) toy line.
    The action figure was based on the film version Ben Affleck starred
    in. The  Legends Showdown 1/18th scale line featured
    Daredevil figures in both his red uniform and a chase version in his
    yellow-and-black uniform.
-   The "Spider-Man Classics" toy line, which was a precursor to 
    Legends, included a Daredevil figure, clad in his traditional red
    costume. The action figure resembles  Editor-in-Chief Joe
    Quesada's representation of Daredevil; it is derived from Quesada's
    stint as an artist on Daredevil. Accessories to the figure
    include the two billy clubs that the character uses. Unlike the
    mainstream comics, the clubs are white (rather than red). An
    expensive variant of the character included him in his original
    yellow and black garb, released in the same series.
-   Daredevil is the 13th figurine in the Classic  Figurine
    Collection.
-   Daredevil was featured in wave one of the first series in the 3 3/4"
     Universe line.

