Zero}}

DAVID NORTH (born CHRISTOPH "CHRISTOPHER" NORD) is a fictional mutant
character appearing in American comic books published by .
He was originally known as MAVERICK, and more recently as AGENT ZERO.
The character first appeared in X-Men (vol. 2) #5 and was created by
Jim Lee.

Daniel Henney portrayed Agent Zero in the 2009 superhero film X-Men
Origins: Wolverine.


Publication history

David North has appeared in a self-titled one-shot Maverick: In the
Shadow of Death as well as a self-titled short-lived ongoing series
called Maverick.

Later, as Agent Zero, he became a regular in the second series of
Weapon X.


Fictional character biography

Early life

Christoph Nord was born in East Germany. His early history is clouded
in mystery, though there are whispers that his parents were involved
with the Nazi regime. He also had an older brother, Andreas. A
mutant, Christoph possessed the ability to absorb kinetic energy through
impact with little to no harm.

Cell Six

A self-described idealist, he fought against the communist regime during
the height of the Cold War, joining a West German black ops unit named
CELL SIX. On a mission in Italy, he was injured by a rival assassin
codenamed the Confessor.

While recovering, he met an Italian nurse, Ginetta Barsalini, whom he
fell in love with and married. Over the next three years, Cell Six's
field agents were eliminated one by one, except for Nord. Nord realized
Ginetta was a spy. Threatening to shoot her, he demanded to know her
employer. Saying he didn't have the guts to shoot a defenseless woman in
cold blood, she lunged at him with a knife, causing him to shoot her in
self-defense. Dying, she revealed that in killing her, he also killed
their unborn child. Long after this incident, Nord continues to be
wracked with guilt about the betrayal and still seeks answers as to whom
Barsalini was working for. This watershed moment left Nord cold and
distrusting of everyone, especially women.

Weapon X

Fueled by the betrayal, Nord became one of the most efficient covert
operatives in Germany. In the 1960s, his exploits caught the attention
of the CIA, who offered him a spot in the clandestine Team X. He agreed,
and at this time, changed his name to DAVID NORTH. As a part of Team
X, he was one of several mutant operatives the government experimented
on and exploited. Each member unknowingly received false memory
implants, and North received a slight healing factor culled from
Logan's DNA. North's immediate team consisted of three field agents:
North, Logan (who later became Wolverine), and Victor Creed (who later
became Sabretooth). The mutant teleporter John Wraith, also referred to
as Kestrel, served as the team's intelligence man and extractor. It was
at this time that North began wearing his signature yellow and black
faceplate.

On a mission in East Germany, both Creed and Logan were badly injured.
Rather than follow protocol and leave them, North dragged them to the
extraction point. Cornered by Andreas Nord, now an assassin, North saved
his teammates the only way he could; killing his own brother in cold
blood. Because of this incident, Logan holds North in very high
regard.

Another mission saw the three agents confront Omega Red in Berlin. They
succeeded in stealing the carbonadium synthesizer, which was necessary
for the Russian to control his death factor pheromone. Taking down the
psychopathic Omega Red was not as easy. In the chaos, Creed panicked,
killing Janice Hollenback, the CIA mole they were attempting to rescue.
The team then escaped by jumping from a ten-story window. The
synthesizer was thought lost, and a rift formed between Creed and Logan
due to Creed's actions on the mission. Unbeknownst to the agency, Logan
had recovered the synthesizer and hid it. North suspected as much at the
time, but did not know for sure.

By the early 1970s, Team X was summarily disbanded. However, the team's
agents were captured by Weapon X to be used as test subjects. When Logan
underwent the adamantium bonding, he went on a murderous rampage,
allowing North and the others to escape. Around this time, North
inexplicably lost his powers. Undaunted, North continued to work in
espionage as a mercenary using the trade name Maverick. The inspiration
for the name had come from a conversation in which North boasted that he
neither trusted nor needed anyone, to which Logan responded, "A regular
maverick, eh?"

Mercenary

Time passed and Maverick developed a reputation as one of the best hired
guns available. Maverick compensated for his lack of powers with
meticulous planning and a reliance on the latest technology.

He worked for private parties and governmental agencies alike, taking
several contracts from retired Major Arthur Barrington, the man who had
brought North into the CIA. When Omega Red captured Wolverine as well as
several of the X-Men in Berlin in an effort to locate the carbonadium
synthesizer, Maverick was sent in by Barrington. Maverick helped free
the captive X-Men, and tracked Sabretooth to Omega Red. With the X-Men's
help, he obtained the device from Wolverine and hid it once again.
Maverick aided the X-Men in combat against Sabretooth, Omega Red,
Fenris, and Matsu'o Tsurayaba. During the course of this incident,
Maverick murders Dr. Abraham Cornelius in cold blood.

Barrington later sent him to acquire the Xavier Files, profiles of the
powers and weaknesses of various mutants, which were compiled by the
X-Men's founder. Maverick battled Warhawk and killed Dr. Alexander
Ryking. In the clash, Warhawk exploded, seemingly destroying the
files. Maverick was later hired by the US government to protect Aldo
Ferro, a former Weapon X member. Former Team X alumni sought Ferro out
after Mastodon died when his age suppression factor reversed.
Unbeknownst to Team X, Ferro was the second Psi-Borg, and was
responsible for the planting of false memories during their time with
Weapon X. Betrayed by Ferro, Maverick then sided with his former
teammates Wolverine, Sabretooth, Silver Fox, and John Wraith, and Ferro
was seemingly killed in the subsequent battle.

Maverick next sought to kill Sabretooth, who was in the midst of a
psychotic murderous rampage following the death of Birdy. First seeking
Wolverine to aid him in this goal, he reluctantly aids the X-Men in
merely capturing Sabretooth, setting in motion what became a failed
attempt by Charles Xavier to rehabilitate the serial killer.

Legacy Virus

Maverick swiftly contracted the Legacy Virus. This development brought
about the random return of his powers but also a loss of energy and
horrible scarring all over his body. He tried to convince Wolverine to
kill him, but Wolverine refused. Maverick decided to make the best of
it, and "fight the good fight." His health declining, he travelled
the world from safe house to safe house, using his savings to procure
treatment for his infection.

During this time, he recruited a very unstable Wolverine to help him
rescue Deadpool. Maverick was attacked by a group led by Slayback at his
Manhattan safe house. Maverick managed to escape to the X-Mansion and
spent several hours in a coma. After coming to, Maverick revealed that
he and Deadpool had been targeted because both were mutants with healing
factors taken from Wolverine's DNA template. Maverick felt they would
soon come for Wolverine directly. Deadpool was being experimented on in
an attempt to create a cure for the Legacy Virus. Maverick and Wolverine
located and rescued Deadpool. It was later discovered by Beast that
Deadpool's body could not generate a cure.

While in New York, he saved a fellow Legacy Virus-positive mutant,
teenager Chris Bradley and his family from an attack by the Friends of
Humanity. The FOH retaliated by firebombing Bradley's home, spurring
Maverick to use his connections to relocate the Bradley family to
Florida under aliases. He also got Chris medical treatment and set his
parents up with new jobs.

He then left for Canada. While there, former KGB agent and mutant
telepath Elena Ivanova found him, demanding he help her track down
Sabretooth, who had killed her mother during his Weapon X years. Before
he could answer her, they were attacked by Omega Red, who had tracked
Ivanova to Maverick in hopes of recovering the carbonadium synthesizer.
With the help of John Wraith, they succeeded in keeping the device away
from the villain.

Ivanova felt that she owed Maverick and stuck by his side, despite his
icy demeanor. They travelled together for a time. The Legacy Virus then
took hold, killing North. Ivanova used her powers to resuscitate him. To
their surprise, the virus seemingly went into remission, all of his
wounds from the virus were healed. His powers not only returned but were
enhanced. Also Weapon X's memory implants were cleared from his mind. He
would later realize that the Legacy Virus made his new powers
inconsistent, at times making them a danger to himself. Immediately,
trouble found them in the form of Russian mob boss Ivan Pushkin, who
sent his enforcers Hammer and Sickle to abduct them.

Pushkin used Ivanova's powers in an attempt to brainwash Maverick into
killing Major Arthur Barrington by making him believe it was Barrington
who had set up Barsalini's betrayal all those years ago. In reality,
Barrington was to deliver testimony at an inquest that would have been
damaging to Pushkin's business interests. Attacking but not killing
Barrington, Maverick quickly regained his senses. While he blinded the
left eye of Sickle with his own weapon, Hammer killed Barrington.

Meanwhile, Chris Bradley ran away from home, missing his girlfriend in
New York. The FOH tapped his friends' phone and when he reached New
York, they again tried to kill Chris. Maverick, Ivanova and Wolverine
saved him and his friend. Ivanova then used her abilities to make the
FOH and Chris' girlfriend think he'd died in the scuffle. Both shaken by
the life-threatening events of the past few days, Ivanova and North's
relationship, platonic up to this point, became physical.

The following morning, Ivanova still expressed the desire to go after
Sabretooth. Maverick harshly warned that an assault against Sabretooth
was a fool's errand, and implied she'd slept with him to coerce him to
aid her goal. Angered, Ivanova left Maverick that night to continue her
vendetta. A regretful Maverick traced Ivanova's steps and found her as
she was rendered comatose by Sabretooth's assault. Maverick stopped
Sabretooth from delivering the killing blow, and left a badly injured
Ivanova in the care of the Bradley family.

Maverick then renewed his vendetta with Ivan Pushkin, desperate to
avenge Barrington's death. Pushkin captured Maverick, hoping to coerce
Maverick to work for him. Maverick, however, freed himself and ruined
Pushkin's attempted theft of a payload of A.I.M. weaponry. In the midst
of this, Sickle gained a measure of revenge by gouging out Maverick's
left eye and stranding him in the Swiss Alps 

Agent Zero

The Weapon X project was soon reinvigorated, and having brought
Sabretooth and Wraith back into the fold, they were sent to recruit
Maverick. Wraith lured an unwitting Maverick into a rendezvous. Maverick
refused to join, and a fierce battle ensued. Sabretooth caught Maverick
off guard, impaling him in the chest then throwing him off the roof of a
20-story building and onto the street below.

[Agent Zero's anti-healing factor corrosive.]

Taken to Weapon X near death, Malcolm Colcord again offered him the
chance to join, as he could still be saved. This time, he reluctantly
agreed, rationalizing it by saying he couldn't "fight the good fight" as
a corpse. He was healed and then upgraded with explicit intent of
assassinating Wolverine. He has no scent, makes no sound thanks to a
vibranium suit, possesses an enhanced healing factor, and a corrosive
was added to his concussive blasts that hinders a foes' healing factor.
In addition, he was equipped with a wide array of weapons, from
wrist-mounted plasma blasters to an adamantium-coated knife. The world
believed that North was dead, and he sought to keep it that way. He dyed
his brown hair black and adopted the new alias Agent Zero. After sending
him on a few simple missions, Colcord tried to break his will by sending
him to kill Wolverine, a mission he purposely botched.

Feeling guilty for joining the enemy, he contemplated suicide daily. His
hatred for his teammate Sabretooth still ran deep, as he tried yet again
to kill him, only to be stopped from dealing a fatal blow by the
Director.

During a mission, Agent Zero encountered a new Maverick, who unbeknownst
to Zero, was Chris Bradley. Bradley had infiltrated a mutant terrorist
group called Gene Nation in an effort to destroy them from inside.
Bradley had wanted revenge on Weapon X for 'killing' North. To achieve
that goal, he received training in black ops from Cable and assumed the
Maverick mantle. Zero, believing this new Maverick was a terrorist, shot
and killed him, only to find the truth as Bradley lay dying. Returning
to the base after this occurred, Zero found Weapon X had disappeared
without a trace. Zero then picked up Bradley's fight, attacking Gene
Nation strongholds across the world and also searched for answers as to
what happened to the program.

It was revealed that Zero doesn't know what happened to Weapon X was
because he was being brainwashed by Mesmero as Zero had become
increasingly harder to control. Zero had gone after Gene Nation because
of Weapon X's instruction. Without realizing it, Zero served as
executioner at Neverland, a mutant concentration camp set up by Weapon
X. But as soon as Weapon X bothered to reveal these truths, they put him
under again, and Zero went on, none the wiser.

Decimation

Agent Zero lost his powers on M-Day, as a result of Scarlet Witch's
actions during the House Of M. It has been revealed that he is among the
mutants who have been depowered.

North is seen residing in a center for former mutants and once again
using the Maverick alias. Wolverine sought him out for information
on carbonadium, reuniting the two and Jubilee. However, Omega Red soon
attacked the building, looking for the carbonadium synthesizer.

Maverick stole Weapon X files and sold them on the black market. In an
effort to cover up his involvement in Kick-starting the Strikeforce X
program from Wolverine, he killed the man to whom he sold the files.


Powers and abilities

North's primary mutant power is an ability to absorb the kinetic energy
generated by an impact without harm to himself. While there are limits
to this power, North is able to survive falls from tremendous heights,
energy blasts, and being struck by superhumanly strong foes without
being injured.

Upon accepting his first offer to work for the Weapon X Program, North
is artificially granted a slight healing factor that allows him to
recover from mild to moderate injuries much faster than a normal
human. It also renders him immune to most diseases and toxins and
also greatly suppressed his natural aging process. However, after
contracting the Legacy Virus, his kinetic absorption ability is
dramatically reduced in efficiency and his healing factor burns itself
out while fighting the virus.

After the virus claims his life and he is resuscitated by Elena Ivanova,
the Legacy Virus immediately goes into remission and his kinetic
absorption ability mutates. After absorbing energy, North must release
the energy in the forms of powerful concussive or heat blasts. He can
also channel the energy into physical attacks, increasing the physical
force of his punches and kicks to superhuman levels.

After being forced to join the Weapon X Program once again, North's
kinetic absorption ability is artificially mutated further. Now, aside
from channeling the energy to increase the strength of his physical
attacks, North can expel a corrosive enzyme that is secreted from the
tips of his fingers via his energy blasts. Aside from its acidic
properties, the enzyme is specifically designed by the Weapon X Program
to counteract the effects of an opponent's self-healing capabilities by
reversing the process. The more an enemy's body attempts to heal itself
from injuries sustained by the enzyme, the worse the injuries become. As
a side effect of the procedure used to grant him this ability, North's
body now possesses no discernible scent.

Currently, North possesses no superhuman powers. Like most of the
world's mutant population, North has lost his mutant powers following
the events of M-Day.

Skills and equipment

North is a highly skilled hand-to-hand combatant and covert operative.
He is also an expert marksman, skilled in the use of virtually all types
of firearms. He has also worn a variety of uniforms over the course of
his career.

The costume he has worn for most of his mercenary career as Maverick is
a suit of body armor consisting of lightweight fiberglass armor plating,
a padded kevlar lining, and airtight seals or shields that allow him
to seal the suit for further protection. His mask contained a
limited oxygen supply as well as infrared scanning and targeting
systems. The suit also harnessed a booster pack that could magnify
the kinetic energy his body absorbed. Canadian inventor Isabel
Ferguson is the primary source of his specialized gear.

As Agent Zero, North wears a body armor woven from vibranium, rendering
him completely silent as he moves. It also refracts light which renders
him practically invisible to conventional detection methods in total
darkness.

North has carried a wide array of weaponry including, but not limited
to: thermite bombs, hydraulic bolt guns, titanium bullets,
wrist-mounted projectile tasers, wrist-mounted plasma blasters,
adamantium bullets, anti-metal bullets, and an adamantium-coated
knife.


Other versions

Exiles

An alternate version of Maverick was revealed to exist in Exiles #62.
Maverick was forced to join Weapon X, a group of reality-hopping people
who had to kill people in order to save realities. Little is known about
Maverick, except that he apparently was killed by the bladed shield of
an alternate version of Captain America. For a time, the body was
trapped in the Timebroker's Crystal Palace until the Exiles sent his
body back home. On his home-world of Earth-1287, Maverick was revealed
to be an agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. before his abduction, working alongside
Nick Fury, who later honored his best agent by giving him a proper
funeral.

Earth-5700

In a possible future timeline (Earth-5700), Agent Zero joined a
Wolverine-led version of the X-Men, teaming with Archangel, Juggernaut,
Sunfire, Mystique, Aurora, and Deadpool. After a time, the Director
activated Zero's embedded mental directive, and Zero, against his will,
slaughtered the X-Men, except for Wolverine. Unable to bring himself to
kill his friend and teammate, he fought the mind control just long
enough to commit suicide.


In other media

Television

[Maverick (left) and Silver Fox as seen in the X-Men 1990s cartoon.]

-   Maverick appeared in the 1990s X-Men cartoon. In the episode
    "Weapon X, Lies, and Videotape", he searches for answers about his
    past and his involvement with Weapon X, teaming with Wolverine,
    Sabretooth, Beast and Silver Fox to take down the robot Talos. In
    the episode "Whatever It Takes", Morph briefly turns into Maverick
    to taunt Wolverine, and Maverick also appears in flashbacks that
    depict himself and Wolverine battling Omega Red (although that
    memory could be one of Weapon X's implanted memories).
-   In X-Men Evolution, Omega Red tells Wolverine of having a vendetta
    against Wolverine, Sabretooth and Maverick which Wolverine does
    not recall.
-   Maverick appears in Wolverine and the X-Men, voiced by Crispin
    Freeman. This version's only power is kinetic absorption but he is
    also the father of Kristie Nord, a mutant with geokinesis. In the
    episode "Past Discretions", he primarily appears in a flashback as a
    target for Wolverine and Sabretooth. Although he is presumed
    deceased, he was captured and brainwashed with his memories were
    removed by Weapon X. In the episode "Stolen Lives", Maverick is sent
    to abduct Kristie, causing Wolverine to team-up with Mystique. Like
    Wolverine's recruitment for Weapon X, the majority of his memories
    have been permanently erased, however, Emma Frost restores his
    memories and then he reunites with his daughter.

Film

[Daniel Henney as Agent Zero in X-Men Origins: Wolverine.] Agent Zero
appears in the film X-Men Origins: Wolverine, played by Daniel
Henney. Depicted as Asian in ethnicity, he is a superhumanly
accurate sniper/assassin and he is William Stryker's second in command
of Team X. He and Victor Creed are the only ones from Team X that stayed
faithful to Stryker. When Wolverine breaks out from the Weapon X
facility, Zero pursues Wolverine to an old barn belonging to an elderly
couple who have taken Wolverine in. Zero kills the couple and orders a
helicopter strike to kill Wolverine. When Wolverine gets away on a
motorcycle, Zero pursues in the helicopter which Wolverine eventually
causes to crash. After mocking Wolverine about how "good, innocent
people tend to die around [Wolverine]", Wolverine ignites a trail of
fuel with his own claws that causes the helicopter to explode,
presumably killing Zero who is apparently inside. Zero was also
allegedly the one who told Fred Dukes and John Wraith about Stryker and
Victor working together and hunting down mutants. This version of the
character is depicted as being exceptionally ruthless, killing several
innocent civilians over the course of the film in order to complete his
mission. Agent Zero, in fact, refers to himself as a soldier at heart.
His powers in the film are enhanced speed, reflexes, agility, and
superhuman accuracy with firearms. He is also shown as an expert
tracker. Producer Lauren Shuler Donner says on the DVD commentary that
Agent Zero has no scent, and that a sequence was planned that he escapes
the crash and Logan cuts down the forest to stop him. The character is
repeatedly referred to as Zero rather than using his given name.

Video games

-   Maverick is briefly mentioned in : Ultimate Alliance.
-   Agent Zero appears in the X-Men Origins: Wolverine video game
    adaptation, voiced by Robert Wu. He hunts Wolverine after the latter
    escapes the facility that bonded the adamantium into the skeleton.
    At one point, he attempts to take Wolverine out with a sniper rifle.
    Wolverine manages to take down his helicopter and kills Nord by
    stabbing him in the stomach with the claws.

