DEATHLOK (also referred to as "DEATHLOK THE DEMOLISHER") is a fictional
character appearing in American comic books published by .
He first appeared in Astonishing Tales #25 (Aug. 1974), created by
Rich Buckler and Doug Moench. At least three subsequent 
characters have used the "Deathlok" identity since then. A recurring
theme among these characters is that a dead human has been reanimated
with cybernetic technology. "Deathlok technology" has also been used
thematically by  writers in other stories.


Publication history

Although initially announced as the new lead feature for 's
Worlds Unknown comic, under the title "Cyborg", the first Deathlok
series ran in Astonishing Tales #25-28, 30-36 (cover-dated Aug. 1974 -
July 1976). This initial version of the character, LUTHER MANNING, later
guest-starred with Spider-Man in  Team-Up #46 (June 1976), and
the story from the cancelled Astonishing Tales comics was finished in
 Spotlight #33 (April 1977).

Deathlok subsequently appeared with the Thing, a member of the superhero
team the Fantastic Four, in  Two-in-One #26, 27, 28, 34 and #54,
although one appearance was actually a robot and not the genuine
Deathlok. The Luther Manning Deathlok then appeared in Captain America
#286-288 (Oct.-Dec. 1983).

A new Deathlok, MICHAEL COLLINS, debuted in the miniseries Deathlok
#1-4 (July-Oct. 1990, reprinted as Deathlok Special #1-4 the following
year). He was the second Deathlok to be created in the modern era and
also the second to be created for the traditional  Universe. This
second Deathlok went on to a 34-issue series cover-dated July 1991 to
April 1994, plus two summer annuals in 1992 and 1993.

The third Deathlok, S.H.I.E.L.D. espionage agent JACK TRUMAN, debuted in
an 11-issue limited series (Sept. 1999 - June 2000).

Deathlok has also appeared in four issues of the limited series
Beyond!_, and Michael Collins, in human form and not as Deathlok,
appeared in Fantastic Four #544-545 (May–June 2007). Multiple unnamed
Deathlok units appear in Black Panther vol. 4, #1-6. Possessing no
human sentience, they were automatons created from corpses of soldiers
killed in Iraq.

Deathlok has his own ongoing series that began in October 2014.


Fictional character biography

Luther Manning

Colonel Luther Manning is an American soldier from Detroit, Michigan,
who, after being fatally injured, is reanimated in a post-apocalyptic
future (originally given the date of 1990) only to discover that what
remains of his dead body has been turned into the experimental Deathlok
cyborg by Simon Ryker. He verbally communicates with his symbiotic
computer, to which he refers as the abbreviated "'Puter". He escapes
from Ryker's control, although he dreams he has regained his
humanity. He battles the evil corporate and military regimes that
have taken over the United States, while simultaneously struggling not
to lose his humanity. He battles Simon Ryker and the first War-Wolf, and
encounters his wife and son for the first time after becoming a
cyborg. He battles Simon Ryker's Super-Tank, and then begins a
hunt for a "cyborg doctor". He battles Simon Ryker as the Savior
Machine, and his mind is ultimately transferred into a Luther Manning
clone. He battles mutants alongside a time-traveling Spider-Man.
He begins working for the CIA, encounters Godwulf for the first time,
and is then finally sent back in time to the modern era.

He battles the Devil-Slayer, but then battles demons alongside
Devil-Slayer. He later becomes controlled by Mentallo and the Fixer
and is sent to assassinate the President, but is stopped by the Thing
and Nick Fury. After his capture he becomes catatonic, and is taken
to England for treatment by the Thing. He is cured by Louis Knort,
and Nick Fury takes him into custody.

Deathlok is rebuilt by Roxxon as a robot and sent to sabotage Project
Pegasus. The robot battles the Thing and Quasar, and self-destructs.
The real Deathlok, now working for the Brand Corporation, battles
Captain America and a time-traveling Luther Manning clone. Alongside
Captain America, Godwulf, and the Redeemers, he battles Hellinger.

Some time later, the "mainstream timeline" Luther Manning begins
dreaming that he is Deathlok. He is charged with temporal energy by
Timestream. Timestream recruits this "mainstream" human Manning.
Deathlok, Timestream, and Manning battled the Collins Deathlok, Siege,
and Godwulf.

The Manning Deathlok eventually returns to his own time and overthrows
the megalomaniac who had taken over the country. Manning remains in his
near-future alternate reality, searching for a purpose in life and
unable to disconnect himself from the machine bonded to him.

Eventually, Manning travels to the mainstream  Universe and
encounters Daredevil and the Kingpin. He lives a life of solitude until
being apprehended by S.H.I.E.L.D., from which he is later kidnapped by
the supervillain Owl and, immobilized, put up for auction as a weapon.
Before a sale can be completed, he is stolen by the crime lord Hood and
sent on a kamikaze decoy run.

John Kelly

Kelly first appeared as Deathlok in  Presents #62. This
version of Deathlok was originally controlled by Kelly until its systems
determined that Kelly's brain function was detrimental to its completion
of the "First Run" program. The Deathlok unit then completed its
mission. Kelly's brain was removed from the cyborg and disposed of. One
of Ryker's assistants took the brain presumably for use in the SIEGE
unit. This version was made for the United States Army by the CIA's
Deathlok-program co-head, Harlan Ryker, after studying Luther Manning's
cyborg body. The Kelly Deathlok later became known as Siege.

Michael Collins

Professor Michael Collins was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He was
a pacifist working for the Roxxon Oil cybernetics corporation Cybertek.
Upon discovery of the Deathlok program he was shot with a sedative by
Harlan Ryker and his brain was transplanted into the body of the John
Kelly Deathlok Cyborg. The machine was used against rebels fighting
against Roxxon's influence in the fictional South American country of
Estrella. Collins regained his consciousness during that mission and
stopped the cyborg programming that would have killed a small child.

Although his brain was intended to serve only as a medium for the
robot's programming, he was able to assert his will over it (installing
a "no-killing parameter" into its programming). The computer is
fully willing to listen to Collins, though he must take care to present
his orders in a way that helps fulfill the mission and keep people from
dying. The computer is fully capable of understanding distinct concepts,
such as bluffing, as when Collins is forced to pretend to take a
hostage.

He met Jesus Badalamente and also battles Mainframe.

Collins learns that his human body was still alive, and encounters Nick
Fury and S.H.I.E.L.D. Harlan Ryker hides Collins's human body.
Collins aids Nick Fury and S.H.I.E.L.D. in preventing a nuclear strike
on the United States.

With the Fantastic Four, X-Men, and Misty Knight, Deathlok later battles
Mechadoom. He meets the Punisher, and battles Silvermane. After
that he teams up with Spider-Man and several other heroes to stop the
Sinister Six. He next meets Moses Magnum. Collins finally
reveals his existence as a cyborg to his family.

Collins then begins to search for his human body. During this time he
fought Sleepwalker, and helps Silver Sable retrieve a purloined
Statue of Liberty. He assists a makeshift team of other heroes in
the "Maximum Carnage" incident, protecting the people of New York from a
mass-murdering group of supervillains. Ultimately, Collins gained
the ability to shift from his "Deathlok" body to human form at will.

During the events of the series Beyond!_, the cosmic being Stranger
(pretending to be the Beyonder) transported Collins to an alien planet
where he was forced to live for years until being rescued with the aid
of several other heroes. However, his rescue required the sacrifice of
Greg Willis, the superhero known as Gravity. As an act of gratitude,
Collins arranged Gravity's funeral. When Willis' body was later
stolen by the cosmic entity known as Epoch, Collins enlisted the aid of
the Fantastic Four in retrieving it.

Jack Truman/Larry Young

Jack Truman was an agent of the international espionage outfit
S.H.I.E.L.D. who was transformed into a cyborg to battle the Red Skull.
Through telepathic means, he eventually swapped his mind into the body
of another former S.H.I.E.L.D. agent, LARRY YOUNG. Young is being
considered as a "potential recruit" for the Initiative program.

Project: Deathlok

During the Dark Reign storyline, a H.A.M.M.E.R. strikeforce consisting
of corpses animated with crude bionics was sent to capture a
super-soldier research center known as "The World". These models acted
like traditional zombies, craving brains. Their mission was
unsuccessful, and as a result, the research group which produced them,
"Project: Deathlok", was scrapped.

Deathlok Prime

Wolverine's rogue ops team joins an alternate future Deathlok-Prime -
now free from its homicidal human host's brain - to face down invaders
from a different possible future where X-Force, and all other
superheroes, have been turned into "Deathloks" controlled by worldly
authorities with popular support, which produces a crime-free utopia for
everyone else.

Deathlok appeared later as a guest speaker for one of Jean Grey School
for Higher Learning's classes. Deathlok revealed the potential futures
of the students present and the probabilities of them occurring.
Notably, Deathlok refused to comment on Genesis' future, only revealing
to him in private that only he can choose his fate.

Death Locket

In the Avengers Arena series as part of the  NOW!_ event, a
female teenage version of Deathlok dubbed Death Locket is introduced.
She is revealed to be Rebecca Ryker, the daughter of Harlan Ryker. After
being maimed in an explosion that killed her mother and brother, Rebecca
was rebuilt using the Deathlok technology that her father developed.
Arcade later kidnaps her alongside the students of the Avengers Academy
and Braddock Academy and forces them to fight other teenage superhumans
in his latest version of Murderworld.

Henry Hayes

A new Deathlok debuted during the Original Sin storyline. Henry Hayes
worked at Doctors Without Borders. During his duty, he lost a leg in a
suicide bomber attack in Kandahar (or was brainwashed into thinking he
did), Henry was taken care of by the company Biotek who provided him
with a composite fiber prosthesis. Upon being placed under mind-control,
Henry Hayes became Deathlok where he was used as an assassin, a soldier,
a killer, a fighter, and an operative. He had participated in at least
one armed conflict alongside organized troops, and assassinated
countless people even in populated areas. He was even once close to be
captured by S.H.I.E.L.D. when a mission went bad in Russia. Henry Hayes
was often memory-wiped and did not remember his assignments. While at
MTA Metro-North station, he tried to engage discussion with another leg
amputee and advised him to contact Biotek, as his own prosthesis
(plastic ones as it was the only his pension afforded him) forced the
man to use crutches. This man left, seemingly displeased with the
discussion. Immediately afterward, he met Seth Horne, a S.H.I.E.L.D.
agent off duty who was present when the Eye of the Watcher exploded,
releasing a blast of energy which revealed deep secrets to anyone in its
radius. To Horne was revealed Hayes' true story. This level four agent
wanted to congratulate him, stating that S.H.I.E.L.D. would wish to have
him in their ranks. As Henry Hayes really did not know what Horne was
talking about, he threatened to call the authorities forcing the agent
to leave after a last congratulation. Immediately, Henry Hayes was
ordered to kill him as the announcement board of the station indicated
the words "Whiskey David" triggering Henry Hayes' Deathlok persona.
After following Seth Horne into the restroom Deathlok quickly executed
him, left, took some medications, and returned to his civilian life
heading to the train to join his daughter Aria.


Powers and abilities

Manning

Col. Luther Manning's body was rebuilt into a cyborg body by Harlan
Ryker. Deathlok's mechanical, cybernetic physiology granted him several
superhuman powers including superhuman strength, stamina, agility,
reflexes, and a computer augmented brain. The right arm and left half of
his face are armored cybernetic implants. He wears a woven metal-mesh
body suit of considerable durability. Deathlok also carried a
helium-neon laser pistol designed by the U.S. Army of his time, and a
throwing dagger.

Manning was a military academy graduate, and a brilliant military
strategist. He is a formidable hand-to-hand combatant, and proficient
with knives, daggers, handguns, and laser pistols.

He was later captured and upgraded by 616's S.H.I.E.L.D. and given jet
boots that allowed him to leap at great heights and his other abilities
were perhaps enhanced to greater levels.

Collins

Michael Collins' human brain was transplanted into a cyborg body by a
group of scientists at Cybertek. His cyborg body grants him the same
powers as Manning, only with much greater strength, speed, and
resistance to injury. He possesses a broad spectrum of visual and
auditory powers. Deathlok has the ability to interface with virtually
any computer system. He is also able to project his consciousness and
sensory projections directly into the Net, making him capable of
directly hacking computer systems far more efficiently than a
traditional hacker. His body can also target (nearly infallibly)
multiple objects and track them. He could scan the entire
electromagnetic spectrum, as well as enter computer systems. He has
learned to use internal nano-bots to repair and alter both his organic
and inorganic parts, enabling him to appear as either a humanoid cyborg,
or completely human.

He also has a very sophisticated A.I., capable of quickly making complex
strategies and evaluating their chance of success. If requested, the
A.I. can take control of the body to perform these operations. Collins
himself possesses no combat skills, but under computer-guided combat
routines, he is an excellent hand-to-hand combatant with an extensive
database of combat techniques and strategies.

Collins is an excellent computer programmer with an advanced degree in
computer science and prosthetics, and helped construct the Deathlok
body, along with other Cybertek scientists including William Hansen, Ben
Jacobs, Stanley Cross, Dr. Hu, and Jim Dworman. After becoming Deathlok,
Collins later modified his own systems.

Like Manning, Collins wears a woven metal-mesh body suit of considerable
durability. He carries a plasma pistol which draws its energy from his
internal power source. Thus, the weapon can only be fired if in contact
with the outlets in Deathlok's hand. Deathlok also possesses a
collapsible plasma rifle capable of greater firepower with the same
limitations, a supply of fragmentation plasma grenades, and a molybdenum
steel knife. He wears a wrist bracelet that allows Deathlok to override
similar cybernetic operating systems, and an adamantium/vibranium alloy
shock dampening helmet. He sometimes uses a refitted Cybertek Dragonfly
fighter with a range of several hundred miles.


Other versions

Mutant X

In the Mutant X reality, Deathlok is a member of the Avengers.

Ultimate 

In Ultimate Spider-Man #70 (Feb. 2005), the Ultimates fight a person
they refer to as Luther Manning, who looks like Deathlok and whom
Spider-Man describes as a "half-robot half-zombie guy". The superheroes
take him into custody.

 Knights

The 2010  Knights miniseries takes place in near future where
the Roxxon company runs practically the entire world economy, and war is
a spectator sport. Luther Manning and Mike Travers are two of Roxxon's
top "players", with Manning possessing superior combat skills while
Travers is their most popular player due to his marketable loud and
colorful personality. After Travers pulls a stunt in one of the wargames
which ends up causing the deaths of both himself and Manning, Roxxon
scientists resurrect them as a single Deathlok cyborg. The new entity
contains different sections of their brains in an attempt to provide it
with both Travers' popular personality and Manning's skill set.

X-Factor

In X-Factor #231 (Apr. 2012), in a version of reality where Wanda
Maximoff declared "no more humans" instead of "no more mutants", Tony
Stark is attacked by a mostly-cyborg version of Steve Rogers, who refers
to himself as Deathlok.


In other media

Television

-   In an episode of Black Panther, a team of Deathloks are sent to
    "assist" Wakanda from an invasion by a neighboring country backed by
    Klaw and his allies with the true objective to coerce or otherwise
    foster a regime friendly to an American agenda. They arrive in time
    but are sent back by the Black Panther.
-   The Deathlok concept is adapted for the television series Agents
    of S.H.I.E.L.D._, which is set in the  Cinematic Universe. The
    show's Deathlok is MIKE PETERSON (played by J. August Richards) who
    is introduced in the show's pilot episode. Mike was an ordinary man
    who received superhuman strength and other attributes from a drug
    created by Project Centipede after being injured during his job.
    Phil Coulson's team manage to save his life and avert civilian
    casualties after he goes into a violent rage, and later Mike
    joins S.H.I.E.L.D. However, on a later mission, Mike is severely
    injured and is captured by Project Centipede, which is in fact a
    division of Hydra and converted into a cyborg who is forced to do
    their bidding. He is eventually saved from Hydra by Coulson's team,
    and helps to prevent Hydra from creating an army of Deathloks. Mike
    appears to go on a mission of self-discovery in the season finale.
    The character reappears to aid Coulson in season two when he is on
    the run from an independent faction of S.H.I.E.L.D.; it is revealed
    that Coulson personally contacted and recruited Mike to work as his
    agent in the intervening months, and provided him with several
    technological upgrades. Later in the season, Mike is recaptured by
    Hydra, who remove his cybernetic parts, although once he is back in
    S.H.I.E.L.D.'s care, S.H.I.E.L.D. offer to restore his missing
    prostheses and abilities.
-   Deathlok appears in the Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H._ episode
    "Deathlok", voiced by Mark Hildreth. In this show, Deathlok is a
    cyborg from the future in which the Skrulls' plan for Earth
    succeeded and Deathlok was one of the few remaining humans left. He
    was turned into a cyborg and sent to the present, but he cannot
    return to his own time. He teleports into a mall where he targets a
    woman only to end up fighting the Agents of S.M.A.S.H. where
    Deathlok claims that she is no girl. She-Hulk discovers that
    Deathlok was right about the girl who happens to be Super-Skrull in
    disguise as the other people in the mall are revealed to be Skrulls
    preparing for the Skrull invasion of Earth. Deathlok tells the
    Agents of S.M.A.S.H. that this date on Earth would be the day when
    the Skrulls eradicate the human race and terraform Earth to settle
    on it. After Hulk defeats Super-Skrull, Deathlok activates his
    self-destruct as She-Hulk takes out Deathlok's core which destroys
    the ship. She-Hulk was able to put a new core made by Iron Man into
    Deathlok where the mall flier was part of Deathlok's way to inform
    the Agents of S.M.A.S.H. about the Skrulls' plot. In the episode
    "Planet Monster" Pt. 2, Deathlok is among the superheroes that help
    the Agents of S.M.A.S.H. and the Avengers in their fight against the
    forces of the Supreme Intelligence.

Film

-   In the early 1990s, a Deathlok film was at the script stage, with
    screenwriter Randall Frakes.
-   In 2007, a Deathlok feature film was supposedly at the script stage
    at Paramount Pictures, with screenwriter David Self.

Video games

-   Deathlok can be summoned to assist Spider-Man or Venom during the
    later stages of Spider-Man and Venom: Maximum Carnage. He drops
    into the center of the screen and fires guns in both directions,
    hitting all enemies.
-   Deathlok will appear as a playable character in : Avengers
    Alliance.
-   Deathlok is a playable character in : Future Fight.

Toys

-   In 1992, Toy Biz released a Deathlok action figure as part of its
     Super Heroes Cosmic Defenders line.
-   In 1999, Toy Biz released a Spider-Man: Heroes Revenge box set
    featuring a Deathlok figure packaged alongside a Cyborg
    Spider-Man figure.
-   A  Legends action figure of Deathlok is part of the
    Galactus Series.
-   In 2009, a new Deathlok figure was released alongside Iron Man 2020
    in a  Super Hero Squad two-pack.
-   Deathlok is one of the figures in the  Infinite Series, an
    extension of the  Universe toyline.


In popular culture

-   "Psychotron" by Megadeth (from the album Countdown to
    Extinction, 1992) was inspired by the Deathlok character.


Collected editions

  width=30%| Title                                      width=30%| Material collected                                                                                                                 width=3%| Pages   width=15%| Publication Date   width=14%| ISBN
  ----------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ----------------------------- -----------------
  Captain America: Deathlok Lives                     Captain America #286-288                                                                                                                    64                1993                          
   Masterworks: Deathlok Volume 1               Astonishing Tales #25-28, #30-36;  Spotlight #33;  Team-Up #46;  Two-In-One #27 & #54; Captain America #286-288   352               November 2009                 
  Deathlok The Demolisher: The Complete Collection    Astonishing Tales #25-28, #30-36;  Team-Up #46;  Spotlight #33;  Two-In-One #27 & #54; Captain America #286-288   368               October 2014                  
  Deathlok: The Living Nightmare Of Michael Collins   Deathlok Vol. 1 #1-4;  Presents #62;                                                                                         216               June 2012                     
  Deathlok: The Souls Of Cyber-Folk                   Deathlok Vol. 2 #1-15 & Annual #1                                                                                                           400               January 2015                  
  Deathlok: Rage Against The Machine                  Deathlok Vol. 3 #1-11; Cable #58-62; Uncanny X-Men #371; X-Men Vol.2 #91; X-Men Annual '99                                          456               February 2015                 
  Deathlok: The Demolisher                            Deathlok Vol. 4 #1-7                                                                                                                        176               January 2011                  
  Deathlok Vol. 1: Control. Alt. Delete._              Deathlok Vol. 5 #1-5; Original Sins #1                                                                                                    120               June 2015                     
  Deathlok Vol. 2: Man Versus Machine                 Deathlok Vol. 5 #6-10                                                                                                                       112               October 2015                  

