DELPHYNE GORGON is a fictional character appearing in American comic
books published by . A Gorgon member of the Amazon nation,
she is a love interest of Amadeus Cho. She first appeared in Incredible
Hercules #121, and was created by Greg Pak, Fred Van Lente, and Clayton
Henry.


Fictional character biography

In the classical age, the Amazons were engaged as mercenaries to battle
an army of Gorgons. They were victorious, and took many Gorgons as
prisoners, who gradually interbred with humans, and their genetic line
continued within the Amazon nation. Delphyne was assigned as a
servant to Amazon Queen Hippolyta's daughter Princess Artume at a very
young age. She became a highly respected general, fighting in the siege
of Olympus against the armies of Amatsu-Mikaboshi.

When Princess Artume conceived of a scheme to depose her mother, locate
the Omphalos and use it to remake the world in the Amazons' image,
Delphyne joined her. They abducted Amadeus Cho (who they believed to be
Hercules's eromenos) in order to convince him to help locate the
Omphalos. Delphyne warned Cho that Artume was deceiving him (claiming to
have sympathy for "small animals and morons"), but Cho ignored her
advice initially. Eventually, however, he saw reason, and the two
kissed. This was witnessed by Artume. As she explained later, she would
have tolerated this but a displeasing farewell wave sealed her
subordinates's fate. She attempted to murder Delphyne, but failed as a
result of a lack of knowledge about Gorgon anatomy. Delphyne joined Cho,
Hercules, and Athena in defeating Artume, and, in killing her, became
the new Queen of the Amazons. Telling Cho that because of this she could
not engage in a relationship with a man without killing him after
consummation, she departed.

Vendetta

[Delphyne in her human form.] Now queen, Delphyne subsequently joined
Hera's alliance of New Olympians, with the goal of killing Hercules and
Athena. This brought her face to face with Cho again, who was perplexed
by her decision. Delphyne explained her desire to kill Athena in revenge
for the original Gorgon curse, and warned him against trusting the
goddess. Later, when Hera attempted to kill her daughter Hebe in
retaliation for Hebe's helping Hercules, Delphyne drew a gun on Hera,
demanding that she cease. Seeking the aid of Hephaestus, Delphyne had
Athena's Aegis shield reforged into a helmet that granted her the
abilities of the Medusa head within the shield. When the Avengers raided
the headquarters of the Olympus Group, Delphyne attempted to confront
Athena, despite Cho's entreaties to cease. She used the helmet to turn
Athena into stone, which freed her from the Gorgon curse, appalling
Cho. Subsequently, however, she balked at allowing Hephaestus to kill
Cho and Hercules, and Athena was revived by the arrival of Zeus'
thunderbolt, conferring on Athena the leadership of the Pantheon, and
returning Delphyne to her Gorgon appearance. For Delphyne's attempted
deicide, she was sentenced to dwell forever in the bowels of the Olympus
Group building.

Subsequently, upon Vali Halfling's capture of the Olympus Group
headquarters, she escaped her cell. She found Athena weakened by
Halfling's capture of the ambrosia of the gods, but was convinced not to
kill Athena, and instead found herself allied with the goddess to repel
the invaders. She defeated Pantheon member Atalanta in combat, and then
joined Cho in defeating Vali Halfling himself and rescuing Hercules. The
two then kissed and officially became a couple.


Powers and abilities

Delphyne is a skilled martial artist and combatant, capable of knocking
over Hercules through effective application of technique, rather than
through sheer strength. Unlike most Gorgons in fiction, she does not
possess the ability to turn people to stone, something she says only
flows through the line of Medusa Gorgon. Her snake-like hair can inject
victims with an incredibly deadly poison through their fangs, and is
prehensile enough to manipulate the trigger of a firearm. Also her
snake-like hair is strong enough to hold up all of her body weight
without much effort. She is cold-blooded and does not register on
infrared.


Other versions

Secret Wars

During the Secret Wars storyline, a version of Delphyne Gorgon from
the Battleworld island nation of Arcadia is a student at the Victor von
Doom Institute for Gifted Youths in Doomstadt. She is a member of the
Night Witches alongside Jubilee of Limbo and Pixie of Mutopia.

