THE DESTROYER is the name of three fictional superheroes appearing in
American comic books published by . One of the earliest
creations of major comics-industry figure Stan Lee, the original
incarnation first appeared in the 1940s during what historians and fans
call the Golden Age of comic books. Modern incarnations created by Roy
Thomas and Frank Robbins appeared in Invaders #18 (July 1977), and
Invaders #26 (March 1978). The Official Handbook of the 
Universe clarifies that all three versions of the character are
considered canon.


Publication history

Golden Age publications

The Destroyer first appeared as the cover subject and in a story in
Mystic Comics #6 (Oct. 1941), from ' predecessor Timely
Comics. One of the World War II-era heroes of what fans and historians
call the Golden Age of Comic Books, the character was one of the first
co-created by  writer-editor Stan Lee. According to comics
historian and former  editor-in-chief Roy Thomas, "Stan's most
popular superhero creation before the Fantastic Four was the
Destroyer." The artist co-creator is uncertain: the story
penciler-inker was Jack Binder, but the cover artist, who may have drawn
the character first, was Alex Schomburg.

The Destroyer ran as the cover feature of Mystic #6 and of the
remaining four issues of that 10-issue superhero anthology, and while
less popular than the company's Captain America, the Human Torch, and
the Sub-Mariner, he went on to star in issues of nearly every Timely
superhero comic-book series — becoming the company's most-published
character outside of those three stars and the Angel.

The Destroyer stood out from other wartime heroes in that he operated
solely within occupied Europe. Artists associated with the feature
include pencilers Al Gabriele and Mike Sekowsky, and inkers Vince
Alascia and Allen Bellman. Comic-book giant Jack Kirby contributed the
Destroyer cover of Mystic Comics #7 (Dec. 1941). The cover was
inked by either Syd Shores or Joe Simon (sources differ).

1970s Publications

Roy Thomas and Frank Robbins first featured Roger Aubrey as the
diminutive Dyna-Mite in Invaders #14-15 (March-April 1977); in the
story he is part of a group of the predominantly British superhero group
the Crusaders, who are being manipulated by the Nazis into killing the
British King. He returns in Thomas and Robbins' Invaders #18-21
(July-October 1977); in the story he parachutes into Nazi Germany with
Lord Falsworth and Spitfire on a mission to restore his memory; a
flashback reveals that he and his best friend Brian Falsworth had gone
to Berlin on a peace mission which ended with them in a Nazi prison
where he was experimented on.

Thomas and Robbins also featured the Falsworth incarnation of the
Destroyer in Invaders #18-19 (July-August 1977); in the story he
explains how he received a variation of the super-soldier formula from a
fellow inmate of a Nazi prison; the previous incarnation as Marlow is
retconed as a mistaken FBI theory popularized in comic books. Thomas and
Robbins concluded the plot-line in The Invaders #20-21
(September-October 1977); in the story he abandons his role as the
Destroyer and takes over his father's role of Union Jack to rescue his
sister and the rest of the team while Aubrey helps to steal a plane to
get them home, and in Invaders #22 (November 1977); in which they are
both safely returned to England. Thomas and Robbins also featured
Falsworth as Union Jack in What If?_ #4 (August 1977); in the story he
and Spitfire save Winston Churchill from a Nazi assassination attempt.

Thomas and Robbins continued to feature Falsworth and Aubrey in the
series, with the former becoming a semi-permanent member of the team in
his new role as Union Jack with issues #23 (December 1977) & #25
(February 1978); in which he joins them on his first mission, while the
latter appeared in a supporting role as Dyna-Mite in issue #23 (December
1977); in which he searches for a cure for the Nazi experimentation that
has reduced his size, and #26 (March 1978); in which a restored Aubrey
is introduced in his role as the new Destroyer. This incarnation was
also featured by Thomas, Donald Glut and Alan Kupperberg in Invaders
#34 (November 1978) and by Glut, Kupperberg and Charles Eber Stone in
Invaders #41 (September 1979).

1980s publications

Roger Stern and John Byrne mentioned Falsworth in the backstory for
Captain America Vol. 1 #253-254 (January-February 1981); the story
reveals in a flashback that he died in a car crash in 1953.

1990s publications

Dan Slott and James W. Fry III featured Aubrey in the WWII-era story
Enis Nacht for  Presents volume 1 #156 (June 1994); in
the story he guides a British bomber to its Nazi target. Slott and Fry
featured him in another WWII-era story for Midnight Sons Unlimited #9
(May 1995); in the story he helps the Blazing Skull to infiltrate a Nazi
base.

2000s publications

Aubrey appears as a supporting character in Fabian Nicieza and Lewis
LaRosa's Citizen V and the V-Battalion: The Everlasting #1 (March
2002); the story begins with a flashback showing him at Falsworth's
funeral in 1953.

Allan Jacobsen and C.P. Smith used Aubrey as a supporting character in a
number of volumes New Invaders, including, #2 (November 2004), in
which he is claimed to be one of the new team's first recruits, #4-5
(January-February 2005), which sees him battling the vampiric Baroness
Blood alongside his lover's successor as Union Jack; and #9 (June 2005),
which sees him resuming command of V-Battalion following the death of
the original Human Torch.


Fictional character biographies

Keen Marlow

American journalist Keen Marlow is captured for spying while reporting
behind-the-lines in Nazi Germany. While imprisoned in a concentration
camp—that specific phrase being used before its association with the
Holocaust—Marlow is given a super-soldier serum, similar to that given
to Captain America, by fellow prisoner Professor Eric Schmitt, an
anti-Nazi German scientist. Responding to the chemical (and without the
beneficial "Vita-Rays" used to chemically stabilize Captain America's
serum), Marlow becomes a prime human specimen who escapes, dons a sleek,
dark costume with a skull motif and a skintight blue mask that made him
appear inhuman, and adopts a fearsome identity with which he fights the
Nazis on their own turf. He was occasionally abetted by an Allied agent
named Florence von Banger. Antagonists included the Scar, Herr Sin and
Von Maus.

Brian Falsworth

In the Destroyer's retcon appearances in the 1970s, the same origin is
recounted except for his identity. Now he is BRIAN FALSWORTH, brother of
Spitfire (a member of the World War II superhero group the Invaders) and
son of James Montgomery Falsworth, Lord Falsworth, who had been the
World War I hero Union Jack. In this storyline, when Captain America
asked if the Destroyer is or is not "an American named Keen Marlow,"
Falsworth declined to respond.

Roger Aubrey

Brian Falsworth gave up the Destroyer identity in order to become the
new Union Jack, and his friend Roger Aubrey (initially introduced as the
superhero Dyna-Mite, a member of the team the Crusaders) became the
new Destroyer. Falsworth's story is recounted in passing in Ed
Brubaker's 2009–2010 miniseries The  Project as part of the
Angel's diary of the war. This retelling claims that "Keen Marlow" was
an alias used by Falsworth to enter Germany to spy; he was betrayed and
captured, and then empowered well after Captain America. However,
prior established continuity showed that Falsworth entered Germany under
his real name pre-war to promote appeasement, that he was captured
trying to leave Germany shortly after Poland was invaded, and empowered
only days later, more than a year before Steve Rogers became Captain
America.


Other versions

Versions of the Destroyer, both in continuity and out, have appeared in
various . The Age of the Sentry #5 (March 2009) depicts
the character as a member of the Guardians of the Galaxy. The character
also made a guest appearance in a 2000s issue of New Invaders.

MAX imprint

's MAX imprint published the five-issue miniseries The Destroyer
vol. 4 (June-Oct. 2009). Written by Robert Kirkman and drawn by Cory
Walker, it starred a version of the character Keene Marlow depicted,
according to Kirkman, under "the assumption that he's had an ongoing
series since the '40s, so I'm basically writing 'issues #701-#705'
..." In this series, a still-active but elderly Marlowe discovers he
has a limited amount of time before he will suffer a fatal heart attack,
and sets out to kill his old enemies and anyone else who might threaten
his wife, who has a bionic arm, or their grown daughter.

Keene Marlow (his first name slightly different from the earlier comics'
"Keen") is enhanced by a super-soldier serum variant, similar to the one
used to create Captain America (Steve Rogers), but lacking the Vita-Ray
treatment.


In other media

Television

[Destroyer (second from the left) along with the other five "Forgotten
Warriors" as seen in Spider-Man.]

-   The Destroyer appears in the five-Part Spider-Man episode "Six
    Forgotten Warriors", voiced by Roy Dotrice. Here named Keene
    Marlowe, he is shown as an old colleague of Captain America and an
    old friend of Ben Parker, now past his prime with his powers fading.
    He was one of five people (alongside Whizzer, Miss America, Black
    , and Thunderer) who had been given powers in an attempt to
    duplicate the serum that gave Captain America his powers. After
    Captain America "sacrificed" his life to stop Red Skull from
    activating the doomsday device, Destroyer and the others claimed the
    keys and retired. After his wife had been fatally shot by a bank
    robber Marlow was attempting to capture, Marlow retired his
    superhero identity and joined the international espionage agency
    S.H.I.E.L.D., eventually becoming a high-ranking agent. When
    Kingpin's Insidious Six were targeting the other teammates of
    Captain America for the keys, Keen ended up coming out of retirement
    to help Spider-Man when Doctor Octopus and Shocker raid Aunt May's
    house for one of the keys.

Video games

-   The Roger Aubrey version of Destroyer appears in Lego 's
    Avengers, voiced by Wally Wingert.

