DETROIT STEEL is a fictional suit of powered armor appearing in American
comic books published by . The armor is usually depicted as
an adversary or rival to Iron Man. Created by writer Matt Fraction and
artist Salvador Larocca, Detroit Steel first appeared in Iron Man (vol
5) #25 (June 2010) as part of the "Stark Resilient" storyline. Detroit
Steel is the first in a line of armored soldiers called the DETROIT
STEELCORPS, or simply the STEELCORPS, which is marketed by Stark's
corporate rival, Hammer Industries. Principal characters in storylines
that have worn the armor include Lt. Doug Johnson and Sasha Hammer.
Individual soldiers wearing the Detroit Steel armor have been called
STEELMECHS or HAMMERMECHS.


Publication history

[Detroit Steel with a Japanese color design, from The Invincible Iron
Man (vol 5) #27 (August 2010). Art by Salvador Larocca.] Detroit Steel
first appeared in The Invincible Iron Man (vol 5) #25 (June 2010), the
first part of the nine-part "Stark Resilient" storyline, which depicted
Tony Stark's struggle to build a new company, Stark Resilient. As
Stark's previous company, Stark Industries, had already been critically
damaged from terrorist attacks in the 2008 storyline "The Five
Nightmares", he was ultimately forced to liquidate what was left of that
company in the 2010 "Stark Disassembled" storyline, which also saw Stark
removed from his position as head of S.H.I.E.L.D. following the events
of the 2008 "Secret Invasion" crossover. Stark's plan for Stark
Resilient was to begin by building a car powered by clean repulsor
technology, the same technology used to power the arc reactor in his
chest with which he first saved his own life in his origin story.

Writer Matt Fraction created Detroit Steel to embody jingoistic
patriotism in the vein of Team America, and describes the character
thus:

  He is what follows in the hole left behind by Iron Man once Tony Stark
  leaves the world stage. Tony hasn't been around to protect the regular
  interests that he might have during his time running Stark Industries
  or running S.H.I.E.L.D. And now that he's back, he's made it clear he
  doesn't want to get back into the geo-political side of things
  necessarily. Detroit Steel is what happens in that absence. He is a
  sort of Blackwater-meets-NASCAR corporate-sponsored armored enhanced
  guy available for hire to the highest bidder for whatever cause around
  the round. Basically, Iron Man's worst nightmare of what he could
  become. An absolute perversion of everything he is.

Though the armor exhibits the colors of the American flag, Fraction
states that the armor can repainted to reflect the colors of whatever
country or corporation purchases them, from the Japanese Rising Sun
Flag (which makes an appearance in The Invincible Iron Man #27)
to the yellow and red colors of McDonald's. Fraction also contrasts
Detroit Steel with Iron Man's Bleeding Edge armor, which debuted in the
same issue, by describing the latter as "sleeker, slicker and pared
down", whereas the former is "bigger and better and boisterous and loud
and noisy and everything else. It's like the difference between a
Porsche and a Mack Truck."


Fictional history

In the "Stark Resilient" storyline, Hammer Industries, led by Justine
Hammer (daughter of Stark's former adversary Justin Hammer) and her
daughter, Sasha Hammer, not only wish revenge on Stark for the death of
patriarch Justin, but see Stark as an obstacle for their product,
Detroit Steel, which they hope to market globally as a new soldier for
the post-9/11 world.

The prototype unit, Detroit Steel Mark One, is piloted by LT. DOUG
JOHNSON III, who underwent surgical modifications in order to operate
the armor, and also trained the other pilots in the company's STEELCORPS
army.

Detroit Steel next appears in The Invincible Iron Man during the 2011
company-wide crossover storyline "Fear Itself". Lt. Johnson is
deployed in Paris, where he confronted Grey Gargoyle, who has been
transformed by Asgardian magic into Mokk: Breaker of Faith. Mokk has
turned the population of the city into stone, and during his
confrontation with Johnson, rips open his armor and turns Lt. Johnson
into stone as well. Sasha Hammer subsequently leads a team of
"STEELMECHS" into Paris, ostensibly on behalf of both the U.S. and
French governments, to recover Johnson and his armor, and encounters
Pepper Potts (aka Rescue). Hammer and the Steelmechs battle Rescue
before they are both confronted by Mokk.

During the "Demon" storyline, Johnson is revealed to be alive. When
asked his name by a relief worker, he gives it as "Detroit Steel".
The public however, believes Johnson to be dead, and Justine Hammer
makes Sasha the new public face of Detroit Steel. The Steelcorps
also appear in the subsequent "Long Way Down" storyline, in which
Johnson kidnaps Sasha in order to steal a Steel unit, after which he is
confronted by the rest of the Steelcorps including Sasha, Justine Hammer
discovered that Johnson had earlier hacked into Hammer Industries where
he disabled the remote-activated self-destruct system in the Detroit
Steel armor. When Johnson gained control of the armor, Sasha and the
Steelcorps battled Johnson up to the point where Sasha decapitated him
with her whips.


Powers and abilities

[Detroit Steel attacks Iron Man, from Iron Man (vol 5) #32 (January
2011). Art by Salvador Larocca.] According to Hammer Industries, Detroit
Steel represented "the most bleeding-edge research into man/machine
spinal hybrid mechanics the world has ever seen", and incorporates
technology, such as C.N.S. (Controlled Exo-Enhanciles), that would
eventually be used to end paralysis caused by cervical, thoracic or
corticospinal injuries. Weighing four and a half tons, the
"oversized" Detroit Steel towers over Iron Man, at approximately
twice his height. The suit affords its occupant considerable
protection from automatic weapons and explosives, though the
magically-powered being Mokk: Breaker of Faith was able to easily rip
open the armor.

The suit allows its users to fly, and usually is seen with a rotary
cannon mounted on its right arm, and a specialized chainsaw on its
left, which can penetrate Iron Man's Bleeding Edge Armor. There
are rocket-powered munitions on the suit's shoulders. The rotary
cannon can be dismounted so that the soldier can carry and fire it as a
traditional handheld weapon, and users of the armor have been seen
outfitted with other types of weapons in this manner, including both
directed-energy weapons and scaled-up rifles. Sasha Hammer's armor
has also been observed to have a directed-energy weapon in palm of its
hands. Those who pilot the armor are required to undergo
considerable surgical modifications, which leave implants visible on the
pilot's chest, which Lt. Johnson, who first piloted the Mark One, felt
"turned him into a monster". According to Justine Hammer, the company
designed models for different environments and hot zones, including
arctic climates and urban encounters. Suits of different heights and
designs have also been revealed.

During the "Stark Resilient" storyline, Detroit Steel was aided in his
attack against Iron Man by a fleet of unmanned flying drones that were
operated by anonymous users duped into believing that the missions they
were carrying out on behalf of Hammer Industries were a video game,
playable via a cell phone application, in which they pretended to be
Detroit Steel's "wingman".


Reception

Alex Evans, reviewing Invincible Iron Man #33 for Weekly Comic Book
Review, while praising the "Stark Resilient" storyline, including issue
#33 (which he gave a B-), found the Justine and Sasha Hammer to be more
effective villains than Detroit Steel, which he found to be "bland" and
"boring". Evans also disliked the lack of a resolution to Steel and Iron
Man's battle in that issue, though he later praised Iron Man #505,
which he felt tied up that loose end. Evans was more receptive to
the character's use in the subsequent storyline, "The Long Way Down",
saying of issue #518, "The manner in which Fraction and Larroca depict
the fight between Detroit Steel and Sasha Hammer was brilliant,
alternating panels between the fight itself (at night) and the aftermath
(the broken apartment in the daylight). It created almost a police
procedural, detective feel that also served to make the whole thing a
bit haunting and unsettling, which is great given how creepy "Detroit
Steel" already is."


In other media

Video games

-   Detroit Steel appeared in Lego 's Avengers.

