DEVIL-SLAYER (ERIC SIMON PAYNE) is a fictional character appearing in
American comic books published by . The character exists in
's main shared universe, known as the  Universe.


Publication history

Devil-Slayer first appeared in  Spotlight #33 (April 1977), and
was created by Rich Buckler who had created a similar character in Demon
Hunter (1975) for Atlas/Seaboard Comics and Bloodwing for his magazine
Galaxia in 1980. For a time he operated as a member of the Defenders.
He first appeared in  Spotlight #33 (April 1977).

The character subsequently appeared in The Defenders #58–60
(April–June 1978), #97–101 (July–November 1981),  Team-Up #111
(November 1981), The Defenders #103–104 (January–February 1982),
 Graphic Novel #1 – 'The Death of Captain ' (April 1982),
 Super Hero Contest of Champions #1 (June 1982), #3 (August
1982), and The Defenders #110 (August 1982), which was a Devil-Slayer
solo story cited by writer J. M. DeMatteis as one of his two favorite
Defenders stories. The character faded into obscurity for several
years until the 1990s, when he appeared in  Presents #37
(December 1989), #46–49 (March–May 1990), #143 (December 1993), #146
(January 1994), Over the Edge #2 (December 1995), Man-Thing #3–5
(February–April 1998), Strange Tales Vol. 5 #2 (October 1998), and
Avengers: the Initiative #14 (August 2008).

In September 2008,  released a limited series, as a part of the
MAX imprint. It was titled Dead of Night Featuring Devil-Slayer and
starred a new Devil-Slayer, a man named Danny Sylva. Sylva is the
great-nephew of Payne, the original Devil Slayer. This series is written
by horror novelist Brian Keene with art by Chris Samnee.

Devil-Slayer received an entry in the original Official Handbook of the
 Universe #3, and in the All-New Official Handbook of the 
Universe A-Z #3. (2006)


Fictional character biography

Eric Payne was born in Queenstown, Illinois. He was a member of a demon
cult called the Agents of Fortune, who helped him unlock the psionic
potential of his brain and gave him a mystically created dimensional
cloak. He later turned on the cult and, with the aid of the Defenders,
he battled Vera Gemini and the Xenogesis and helped prevent the cult's
mystical plans from being realized.

He assists the Defenders in confronting a cult leader named David. This
man had been granted temporary mystical powers by a coalition of demons
known as the Six Fingered Hand. Despite the passing nature of his
abilities, Eric's wife Cory chose to stay with the cult leader.

As the Defenders returned to Doctor Strange's home after this
confrontation, they were called into action again by the Avengers. The
town of Citrusville, Florida had vanished, into a gigantic hole
resembling a six-fingered hand. Eric and the rest of the group
confronted a possessed Man-Thing and then traveled through dimensional
realms in order to find the source of the problem.

During Eric's time with the Defenders, he helped confront a host of
demons, including Balthazar, who had taken over the form of an Air Force
commander. The Defenders almost died when Balthazar convinced innocent
Air Force pilots that they were spies. Though his demon compatriots were
eventually sucked back to their own realm, Balthazar somehow stayed on
Earth.

Still in the form of the Air Force soldier, he targeted Devil-Slayer
personally. Balthazar tricked Devil-Slayer into a bar full of disguised
demons where Eric's drink was altered, thus removing his psychic powers.
Despite this, Devil-Slayer held his own, using his magical accessories
to battle the demons successfully. Balthazar and Eric were drawn into
the Borders of the Land of the Dead, where stood many of his Defender
allies, now seemingly dead. It was here that Balthazar was seemingly
slain again.

There are indications he has returned another time but this might be
Payne's mental instability.

Eric questions his tragic life, and reconciles with his wife, then turns
himself in for his past crimes. He later helps war-torn Potega, but
loses his shadow-cloak, and then rededicates himself as a hero.

Devil-Slayer was later remitted to an asylum, where he discovers a shard
of the Nexus of Realities, and then becomes Payne with his partner
Sorrow.

Nighthawk mentioned he had talked to Eric Payne and that he was willing
to join a new team of Defenders. However, when Richmond suggested it to
Initiative boss Tony Stark, he declined the offer. Shortly
afterwards Eric is seen as a member of the Hawaiian Initiative team, the
Point Men, serving the team as their "Monster Hunter." When the new 3-D
Man arrives in Hawaii, Devil-Slayer informs him that he has sensed
portents of doom all day. When 3-D Man identifies team member Magnitude
as a Skrull impostor, the Skrull attacks and severely wounds the other
Point Men, Star Sign and Paydirt. The Skrull is killed, and Devil-Slayer
uses his Shadow Cloak to teleport Delroy to Camp Hammond before taking
Star Sign and Paydirt to a hospital. Devil-Slayer later appears in
Utah with the cyborg Jocasta to aid 3-D Man and the Skrull Kill
Krew. He spends some time teleporting the Krew and their ever
increasing allies across the country to kill Skrulls who have
infiltrated the Initiative teams. As fore-warned, he runs out of
power and faints, leaving the final few confrontations to the speedsters
the Krew have recruited.

After Doctor Strange loses his position as Sorcerer Supreme,
Devil-Slayer is one of the many magic users approached by the Eye of
Agamotto as a potential replacement.

Devil-Slayer (wearing a totally new outfit) is recruited by Wonder Man
(whose ionic energy leaking powers were affecting his judgement) to join
his Revengers. He and the Revengers were defeated by the three
Avengers teams and remanded to the The Raft. When he was interrogated,
Devil-Slayer stated that he joined the Revengers in order to make a
reality where the Avengers were held accountable for their actions.


Powers and abilities

Eric Simon Payne is a trained soldier and hit man, proficient in nearly
all forms of hand-to-hand weaponry and an above-average marksman.

As Devil-Slayer, Payne uses a mystical device called a shadow cloak. The
cloak can elongate itself and respond to his mental commands, forming
whips and grappling opponents and objects. The inside of the cloak
served as a portal to other dimensions. By wrapping himself and/or
others in folds of the cloak, Payne can teleport to and from other
dimensions and could even teleport limited distances on Earth by
entering and exiting at different locations. Time also runs differently
inside the cloak, allowing Payne to place injured people in a form of
stasis if he so wills.

Payne had also developed certain psychic abilities. He possesses a sixth
sense that can detect mystical influence on people or creatures, useful
for tracking and finding demons. He also had some degree of telekinesis
and telepathy, the latter of which he typically used to mask his costume
with an illusion of civilian clothes. The nature and extent of Payne's
current powers remains unrevealed.

Payne could also reach into the folds of the cloak and draw out an
endless supply of weapons from any time or place. He typically used
melee weapons such as swords, axes or maces but has also removed from it
more modern weapons such as automatic rifles and even futuristic weapons
such as a plasma rifle. On at least one occasion, he used a staff that
conferred upon him a degree of invulnerability and generated energies
that he could absorb to enhance his psychic abilities.

