DIAMOND (KENT CHANG) is a fictional character, a superhero appearing in
American comic books published by . The character appears
in the NEW-GEN comic books. Created by Chris Matonti, J.D. Matonti, and
Julia Coppola, he first appeared in NEW-GEN #1 (2010). He was one of the
children from the world of NEW-GEN granted extraordinary abilities by
Deadalus' nanobot plague. He is a founding member of the A.P.N.G.


Fictional Character Biography

Early life

Diamond was born on New-Gen, and was only a few years old when Deadalus
went rogue and released an enormous quantity of nanobots on the
population. He was one of the children upon whom the nanobots had a
drastic, mutating effect. After his skin hardened into the crystalline
substance of which it is currently made, Gabriel adopted the young
Diamond in order to train him in the proper use of his powers.

Training with A.P.N.G.

During his years of schooling, presided over by Gabriel and his wife,
Thea, Diamond became an exceptionally hard and disciplined worker. He
took his martial arts training especially seriously. Diamond became a
bit of a perfectionist in the eyes of his teammates as he matured. He
regularly took place in combat and tactical training exercises, as well
as standard schooling in various academic fields of study.

Battle with Sly

When Sly burrowed his way through the crust of the underworld onto
Zadaar IV with his army of MetalMites and microbots, Diamond was part of
the team sent to dispatch him, after Sly's forces proved to powerful for
Mini to handle by himself. Diamond, although relatively new to
legitimate battle, destroyed a large number of MetalMites on his own. He
also allowed himself to be used as a tactical projectile, due to his
nigh-indestructible skin. Both Gazelle, her super speed, and Flyer,
using his ability to gain tremendous altitude, throw Diamond into very
large MetalMites, punching large holes through them and rendering them
useless. Sly then uses a specialized energy blast and deactivates the
nanobots inside the A.P.N.G. This causes Diamond to revert to his
original human form, leaving him powerless and in pain. When Gabriel
arrives, he gives each member of the A.P.N.G. a nano-glove, containing
nanobots which restore their powers and strength. As Gabriel fights Sly,
Diamond's confidence is renewed, and he destroys several more MetalMites
with his teammates, eventually emerging victorious and returning home to
New-Gen.


Powers, abilities, and equipment

Diamond's entire body is composed of a substance very similar to (and
possibly stronger than) terrestrial diamonds. It is light blue in
color, and almost translucent. It's unique strength and durability make
Diamond almost invulnerable to injury. It is common for other members of
the A.P.N.G. to throw him at larger foes, as his density and
invulnerability ensures that he will do maximum damage and will incur
minimal harm upon himself. This technique is reminiscent of the fastball
special. Diamond also seems to possess a limited degree of super
strength, as he is able to destabilize larger, dense foes with his
attacks. Although the ability is only seen in one panel in NEW-GEN #5,
Diamond appears to be able to slightly change his shape when angered,
generating sharp protrusions from his body to inflict more damage.
Whether or not this ability will further manifest itself remains to be
seen.

In addition to his powers, Diamond is also a highly skilled martial
artist, with an advanced knowledge of many fighting styles. Gabriel has
outfitted him, as well as Mini (the two members of the A.P.N.G. unable
to travel at faster than normal speeds) with a sort of wrist mounted
grappling hook, similar to those used by Batman or Black Cat
(comics).

