DOC SAMSON (DR. LEONARD "LEO" SAMSON) is a fictional character appearing
in American comic books published by . The character is
usually depicted as a superhero and psychiatrist in the  Universe,
known as a supporting character in stories featuring the Hulk. He was
portrayed by Ty Burrell in the 2008 film The Incredible Hulk.


Publication history

Doc Samson debuted in the Incredible Hulk vol. 2, #141 (July 1971),
created by writer Roy Thomas and artist Herb Trimpe. Since then he
has also appeared as a supporting character in several different 
Comics titles, including She-Hulk, Uncanny X-Men, and Amazing
Spider-Man. In 1996 Doc Samson starred in his first self-titled
miniseries written by Dan Slott. In 2006, Samson starred in his second
miniseries written by Paul Di Filippo and penciled by Fabrizio
Fiorentino.


Fictional character biography

[First appearance of Doc Samson from issue #141 of The Incredible
Hulk. Art by Herb Trimpe]

LEONARD SAMSON was born LEONARD SKIVORSKI, JR. in Tulsa, Oklahoma. He
was raised Jewish and attended yeshiva. His father, Dr. Leonard "Leo"
Skivorski, was a popular psychiatrist in his hometown who specialized in
treating young women, often conducting extramarital affairs with them.
Mrs. Skivorski had nicknamed her husband "Samson" after his long hair.
Leonard Jr. initially expressed disinterest in becoming a psychiatrist,
perhaps because he resented his father's philandering. Despite this, he
became a college professor and psychiatrist. After Bruce Banner was
temporarily cured of being the Hulk by siphoning off the gamma radiation
that caused his transformations, Samson, who had been working with
Banner/Hulk in his job as a psychiatrist, exposed himself to some of the
siphoned radiation, granting him a superhumanly strong and muscular
physique and causing his hair to turn green and to grow long,
reminiscent of his biblical namesake. Initially, Samson's physical
strength depends upon the length of his hair, though his gamma mutation
eventually stabilized, making the length of his hair no longer a factor.
Shortly afterward, his flirting with Betty Ross causes a jealous Banner
to re-expose himself to radiation, becoming the Hulk once more to battle
Samson. Samson learns that his power decreases when he cuts his green
hair, but he loses his powers due to the bombardment of intense gamma
radiation. Feeling guilty about his role in his patient's return to
being the Hulk, Samson would spend much time working with Banner over
the years.

Samson eventually regains his powers in a gamma ray explosion. He joins
the Gamma Base staff. Alongside S.H.I.E.L.D., he battles the Hulk.
He shrinks and projects the Hulk into Glenn Talbot's brain to cure
Talbot of amnesia. Samson then battles the Rhino.

Samson is captured by the Leader. He joins forces with the Hulk
against the Leader's humanoids. He attempts a psychoanalysis of the
Hulk through his dreams, and diagnoses him with multiple personality
disorder. Samson next encounters Angel and the Master Mold. He
encounters Moonstone and battles the Hulk. Samson quits Gamma Base
and becomes General Ross' psychiatrist.

Samson encounters Woodgod and the Changelings. His former
relationship with Dr. Delia Childress is revealed, and he teams with
Spider-Man against the Rhino and AIM. He defeats Unus in combat.
With the Thing and other heroes, he is abducted by the Champion to
challenge him in combat. The Vision offers Doc Samson a position as
the leader of a midwestern branch of the Avengers. Samson says that he
is flattered, but has already accepted a position teaching at
Northwestern University, which he prefers to the life of a hero, and
additionally that administration is not his strong point.

Samson, determined again to cure the Hulk, defeats him in battle by
calming him. He succeeds in separating Bruce Banner and the Hulk
physically into two separate individuals. He rescues the Hulk from
S.H.I.E.L.D.'s attempt to execute him, although the Hulk runs amok.
Samson adopts a new costume and battles the heroes Iron Man, Wonder Man,
Hercules, and Namor the Sub-Mariner for the right to recapture the
Hulk. He battles the Hulk, destroys the Hulk robot, and battles
the Hulkbusters, resulting in the death of Carolyn Parmenter. He
battles the Hulk and the Hulkbusters again, but the Hulk defeats
Samson and the Hulkbusters. Samson then attempts to merge Banner and
the Hulk, but an accident results in Banner's transformation into the
grey Hulk.

Samson becomes mentally dominated by a mutant mind-parasite. He
assists X-Factor in capturing the Hulk on behalf of S.H.I.E.L.D.
Samson also cures Captain Ultra of his fear of fire.

To "cure" the Hulk's multiple personality disorder, Samson hypnotizes
Banner with the Ringmaster's help and successfully begins the process of
integrating the Banner, grey Hulk, and green Hulk personalities into a
new Hulk. The results extend beyond his control, however, leading to
a somewhat unstable merger which eventually fragments once more into a
fourth personality, albeit a more benign one than the previous Hulks.
Around this time, Samson attends the execution of convicted murderess
"Crazy Eight".

Doc Samson was also a part of Bruce Jones' run on The Incredible Hulk,
with one of the main characters Jones introduced supposed to be Samson's
ex-wife. Samson sports an eyepatch during much of this run. After
discovering that a covert organization which is hunting the Hulk has
implanted a surveillance device in Samson's eye, he removes the device
with a scalpel and wears the eyepatch for protection while his eye
heals.

In addition to the Hulk, his most prominent patient, Samson has also
spent time in a professional capacity with the second X-Factor, the
Molecule Man, She-Hulk, and the Punisher, among others.

He is befriended by Doctor Strange's new pupil Jack Holyoak, and
helps his friends' daughter Tina Punnett rescue her "new-age hippie"
parents from dealing with a ghost of musician Cam Larson guarded by
Living Totem. Searching for his friend Sam Laroquette, Doc Samson along
with Living Totem, Tina, and Jack arrives at new age cultist Doctor
Arick Schnellageister's farm where they all fight Stephen King-inspired
nightmarish Weed. The third issue was written by Jay Faerber and it
shows Samson helps the new Scorpion come clean after being implied to
have killed S.H.I.E.L.D. agents. The final two-parter was a storyline
involving Nightmare from a different dimension sending the alternate Doc
Samson to help him invade the regular 616  Universe. Those last
two issues had Frank Espinosa's short Living Totem stories as back up.

Samson reappears, helping Jennifer Walters, and treats Rachel
Grey. He talks with Valerie Cooper, regarding her and the O*N*E
organization taping his session with Rachel, even though he asked her
not to. Samson was a member of Iron Man's pro-registration side in Civil
War. He gave each member of the newest incarnation of X-Factor a
session after a particularly troubling mission. He is paying particular
attention to the team's leader, Jamie Madrox.

Samson is shown working alongside the Pro-Registration alliance. As part
of this group, he helps She-Hulk and Spider-Man take down a rampaging
robot threatening innocent civilians. Samson remains on Iron Man's side
during the final breakout at the Negative Zone prison. The
Pro-Registration people ultimately win when Captain America surrenders.

World War Hulk

Samson plays a role in the events of the World War Hulk crossover
event of 2007. Dr. Samson was instrumental in the Illuminati plan of
exiling the Hulk as well as de-powering She-Hulk for Iron Man. Samson
was sent by Mr. Fantastic to retrieve She-Hulk after she discovered that
her cousin was exiled, and tries to convince her that her cousin
deserved his punishment after recalling several moments when the Hulk
fought the members of the Illuminati. She-Hulk punches Samson into
another state after realizing that Samson was siding with the
Illuminati.

Samson is shown to be one of the various heroes that helped during the
evacuation of New York. Later he and the Avengers are quickly
defeated by the Hulk and his Warbound allies, whereby Doc Samson and his
fallen teammates are 'enslaved' by obedience discs (the very same
technology used to control the Hulk/Green Scar and other Gladiators on
Sakaar). Following a climactic and hard-fought victory over the
Sentry, Doc Samson is freed from his obedience disk after Tony Stark
activates a series of satellite devices that open fire on the Hulk and
leave him unconscious, and in his human/Bruce Banner form.

Samson is appointed by the Initiative to serve as therapist for
Penance. He successfully helps Penance regain his original Speedball
powers and make steps towards psychological recovery.

He is sent by the CSA to temporarily suspend Tony Stark from his
S.H.I.E.L.D. duties pending psychological evaluation, and while
overseeing this was drawn into assisting Tony in uncovering the
Mandarin's Extremis conspiracy. He gives evidence to the UN Security
Council in Tony's cover, sparring verbally with Norman Osborn in the
process.

Secret Invasion

Following the Secret Invasion, Doc Samson is shown leading a support
group meeting with those that had been replaced by Skrulls. Later,
he appears on Air Force One, attempting to disclose the full activities
of Norman Osborn within Thunderbolts Mountain to the new United States
President. Before Samson is able to play the evidence, Osborn's new
Thunderbolts hijack the plane: the Ghost takes the evidence, Ant-Man
implants a gamma-emitter on the back of Samson's neck causing him to
grow angry and more powerful in a Hulk-like manner, and someone wearing
the Green Goblin's costume attacks the airplane. Samson's
increased anger brings him to attack the President, but he is phased out
of the plane by the Ghost. Osborn reasons that, in his enhanced state,
Doc Samson probably survived the fall, and places a global warrant for
his arrest, suggesting that Samson attempted to kill the President.

Hulk

In the debut issue of the 2008 Hulk title, written by Jeph Loeb,
Samson appears in Russia, alongside Iron Man, General Ross, and She-Hulk
(whose attitude towards Samson is still antagonistic). The group is
investigating the murder of the Abomination at the hands of a Hulk-like
creature. After an altercation over jurisdiction with the Russian Winter
Guard (a fight which Samson uncharacteristically starts), Samson and
Ross return to the United States to consult with Banner, who is
imprisoned in a high-security facility.

However, the Helicarrier crashes near New Jersey. Tony Stark orders
Maria Hill to investigate, and search for survivors. Clay Quartermain's
corpse is found mangled and ravaged, and the area bathed with gamma
radiations. General Ross' and Samson's bodies are missing. Leonard's
coat is found ripped and shredded in a Hulk-like fashion, exhibiting
higher Gamma Radiation values than every other item in the wreckage.

Samson later shoots Rick Jones and drags him away after Jones attempts
to reveal the Red Hulk's true identity.

In Incredible Hulk #600 (Sept. 2009), it's revealed the reason Samson
shot Rick Jones is because Samson now has multiple personality syndrome.
Samson grows larger in size (hence the high gamma output and ripped
jacket in the Red Hulk story arc), his hair grows out, and in this form
he is stronger and faster than Jennifer Walters. He also has a lightning
bolt scar across his chest. Samson claims, just before his evil persona
takes over, that he was brainwashed by MODOK who wouldn't let him talk.
This personality refers to himself only as "Samson" and claims Leonard
is never coming back. However after MODOK subdues She-Hulk and Samson to
keep them from destroying the facility, and just before it does explode
due to a fight between Rulk and Hulk, Rulk is standing over Leonard (now
short haired again) and She-Hulk claiming the three of them will ride
out the explosion.

A subsequent appearance features "Samson" apparently attending a
psychological evaluation which discusses his feelings of inadequacy
compared to other heroes, never attracting the attention of either the
public or women despite his powers, only for the appointment to be
revealed to be a confrontation in Samson's mind between his three
personas: Samson, Doc Samson, and Dr. Leonard Samson PhD. Concluding
that his intellect is what has been holding him back in his previous
confrontations, Samson "kills" his other two personas, prompting MODOK -
who has been watching Samson in a cell while the "dream" takes place -
to conclude that he is ready.

After Banner frees the other captive intellectuals in the
Intelligencia's trap, they quickly determine that the Red Hulk 'creation
process,' if accidentally or intentionally done incorrectly, will result
in a series of "Hulked Out" individuals who will briefly obtain the same
abilities as Red Hulk and Red She-Hulk, although these 'overcharged'
candidates will overload and die not long afterward. Many of these
candidates include members of the X-Men, Avengers, and the Fantastic
Four who were inadvertently caught in a shipwide blast of cathexis rays.

After re-tooling the Cathexis Ray Generator to re-absorb and turn the
Hulked-Out Heroes (and A.I.Marines) back to normal, Banner tries to
absorb all of the energy with his body - and mostly succeeds - but at a
crucial juncture, the machinery begins to break down from the feedback.
Samson steps in and absorbs the additional excess energy, but for
unknown reasons, his body is unable to absorb the energy as readily as
Banner's body can and he is killed by the overload, reduced to a charred
skeleton in seconds.

Chaos War

During the Chaos War, Doc Samson returns from the dead after what
happened to the death realms. He helps Bruce and the other Hulks fight
Brian Banner, Abomination, and the demons on Amatsu-Mikaboshi's side.
Doc Samson was helpful in holding off Abomination. When Hercules
sacrificed the All-Father powers to heal the universe, some of those who
came back to life returned to the afterlife while the others remained
among the living. Samson's fate was unknown.

Death

When Red Hulk and Doctor Strange traveled to the Monster Metropolis and
enlisted the help of the Legion of Monsters, they discover that the
spirit that has been haunting Red Hulk is the insane evil side of Doc
Samson (referred to as Dark Samson) which hasn't passed into the next
life. Using a ghost entrapment device, Red Hulk and the Legion of
Monsters were able destroy the Dark Samson spirit by ripping him in
half. Red Hulk and the Legion of Monsters did a toast to honor Doc
Samson after that.


Powers and abilities

Doc Samson possesses superhuman physical abilities as a result of
exposure to high levels of gamma radiation. The gamma radiation mutated
Samson's physique by adding considerable muscle and bone mass to his
body, granting him high levels of superhuman strength. Initially, his
strength was dependent on the length of his hair and the longer it was,
the more powerful he became, although his mutation has since stabilized,
making his hair length irrelevant. Samson's strength is equal to that of
the Gray Hulk, AKA Joe Fixit, while the latter is in a calm emotional
state. Unlike the Hulk, however, Samson's strength doesn't increase due
to adrenaline surges while angry. As a result, Samson is less
powerful than an angered Hulk. Samson is able to leap great distances
vertically and horizontally, though not nearly as far as the Hulk or
Abomination.

Aside from granting him more muscle mass, Samson's bodily tissues are
fortified and are considerably harder than those of an ordinary human,
granting him a high level of resistance to physical injury. Samson can
withstand falls from great heights, extremes of temperature,
high-caliber bullets, and tremendous impact forces like being repeatedly
struck by the Hulk without sustaining injury. Due to his highly advanced
musculature, his muscles produce considerably less fatigue toxins during
physical activity than the musculature of a normal human, granting him
superhuman stamina. He has demonstrated sufficient stamina to battle a
mindless incarnation of the Hulk for more than six hours.

The discovery of a new persona within Leonard's psyche, which he calls
"Samson," reveals that Doc Samson is capable of much higher powers than
previously observed.

Like others who have gamma induced powers, Doc Samson is immune to
terrestrial diseases. Unlike the Hulk, Abomination, or even She-Hulk,
Samson hasn't demonstrated any accelerated healing powers.

Samson is said to be one of the most renowned psychiatrists on
Earth. He is often called on to counsel various superhumans, such as
the members of X-Factor. He has a M.D. in psychiatry, and is a skilled
theoretical technician and inventor of various medical devices. His
extensive study of the mind also permits him a significant degree of
resistance to telepathy and telepathic attacks.

Samson is a highly skilled hand-to-hand combatant, which, coupled with
his physical attributes, has allowed him to engage the Hulk for extended
periods of time, and he briefly held his own against the combined forces
of Iron Man, Wonder Man, Sub-Mariner, and Hercules, after they had first
fought the mindless Hulk. He sometimes uses psychology as a tool to
get through a more powerful opponent's guard, such as an Infinity
Gem-empowered Titania.


Personality

Unlike the Hulk, Doc Samson originally did not suffer from dissociative
identity disorder, and retained his genius intellect, however in recent
years he has developed a split personality: his calm conscious
personality "Leonard" and his rude personality "Samson". He has
conducted research on gamma beings like himself and has come to the
conclusion that gamma mutation is largely determined by the subject's
deepest sense of self. Hence, his form is based on a subconscious desire
for superhuman power like the Biblical Samson.

While attacking the Thunderbolts, the telepath Mirage noted that Doc
Samson, who was present in Thunderbolts Mountain, had some fascinating
thoughts. In his mind she saw that, while his mental reactions to Norman
Osborn and Moonstone were Hulk-like, he was still able to control
himself from physically acting on those impulses.


Other versions

Earth X

In Earth X, it is stated that Doc Samson was killed when the Skull used
his powers of persuasion to force Samson to rip himself inside out. It
is stated that Samson got halfway through before he died, and the Skull
"thought it was funny".

Mutant X

In the Mutant X Earth, Doc Samson had gained green skin and an expanded
physique, much like the Hulk. He still manages to keep his calm and
rational mind. He forms a new mini-team, called the Defenders, after the
Avengers are neutralized. Stingray and Yellowjacket join him. Samson is
one of the many victims of the conflict between that Earth's Beyonder
and the Goblyn Queen.

 Zombies

In the  Zombies: Dead Days series, Doc Samson is seen in the
S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier as one of the heroes who survived the zombie
plague.

Spider-Ham

In Peter Porker, the Spectacular Spider-Ham #16 Doc Samson is parodied
as a clam called DOC CLAMSON.

Ultimate 

In the Ultimate  universe, an unpowered Leonard Samson appears in
Ultimate Spider-Man, as the psychiatrist for Norman Osborn.


In other media

Television

-   Doc Samson appears in The Incredible Hulk, the animated television
    series broaast on UPN in 1996–97, voiced by Shadoe Stevens. Samson
    was shown both fighting the Hulk and trying to find a way to cure
    Banner of the Hulk.
-   Doc Samson appears in The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes
    episodes "Hulk Versus the World", "The Breakout", "Gamma World",
    "Nightmare in Red", "Code Red", and "Avengers Assemble", voiced by
    Cam Clarke.
-   Samson is featured in the The Super Hero Squad Show episode "This
    Man-Thing, This Monster", voiced by Dave Boat.
-   Doc Samson appears briefly in the Ultimate Spider-Man episode
    "Beetle Mania", voiced by Steven Blum.
-   Doc Samson appears in the Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H._
    episode "The Skaar Whisperer" voiced by J.P. Karliak. Doc Samson
    is called in by Hulk in order to train Skaar to be civilized. He
    even tries hypnosis on Skaar until their therapy session ends up
    crashed by the Agents of S.M.A.S.H.'s fight with Absorbing Man.
    After Absorbing Man is defeated, Doc Samson states that the Hulks
    have never changed and leaves their base in an insane fashion.

Film

-   Leonard Samson appears in the 2008 The Incredible Hulk film,
    played by Ty Burrell. He does not have any superpowers, and is
    in a short relationship with Betty Ross. After seeing Banner/the
    Hulk save her from a ruthless attack on him by her father,
    Thunderbolt Ross, he begins to sympathize with the
    fugitive scientist.

Video games

-   Doc Samson appeared in the video game The Incredible Hulk: Ultimate
    Destruction voiced by Daniel Riordan.

Non-fiction

-   Samson's Jewish heritage is discussed in the non-fiction book From
    Krakow To Krypton.

