DOCTOR DRUID, also known as DOCTOR DROOM and DRUID, is a fictional
character, a supernatural monster-hunter appearing in American comic
books published by .

Co-created by writer-editor Stan Lee and penciller Jack Kirby, he
starred in his own continuing feature that debuted in Amazing
Adventures #1 (June 1961), predating Lee & Kirby's milestone creation
The Fantastic Four #1 (Nov. 1961).


Publication history

In his earliest five appearances, in Amazing Adventures #1–4 & #6
(June–Sept. & Nov. 1961), the character was called Doctor Droom. The
first strip was written by Stan Lee, penciled by Jack Kirby, and inked
by Steve Ditko. Doctor Droom vanished into obscurity for years after the
series was re-titled and reformatted as Amazing Adult Fantasy with #7
(eventually the magazine was retitled Amazing Fantasy with issue #15).
According to Lee, Doctor Droom was essentially succeeded by Doctor
Strange: "... I always liked [Doctor Droom], but I forgot about him. It
was a one-shot thing. And one day while we were trying to think of some
new heroes, I thought I'd like to bring back a magician. And I gave him
the name Doctor Strange ..."

Doctor Droom resurfaced in the 1970s in the final four issues of
's reprint title Weird Wonder Tales. Issue #19 "introduced" Dr.
Druid in a reprint of his Amazing Adventures debut as Droom, but with
his name changed, presumably to avoid confusion with  supervillain
Doctor Doom. Another modified Droom reprint appeared in issue #20. Then
in #21, he served as "host" to introduce an evidently new (but
uncredited) story featuring Gene Colan art. The next and final issue of
Weird Wonder Tales contained a new splash page with John Byrne art
leading into a reprint of the second Droom story from Amazing
Adventures, wherein Druid's original, drab grey clothing was painted
over with his new red uniform.

Doctor Druid would next appear as a guest character in The Incredible
Hulk and in Ghost Rider #26 (Oct. 1977). In the 1990s he appeared in
Quasar #23–25, 28, 38, 45–46, 50–51, Captain America #402–409 and
Secret Defenders #15–24. He starred in the miniseries Druid #1–4
(May–Aug. 1995), by writer Warren Ellis and artist Leonardo Manco, and
co-starred with Ulysses Bloodstone and others in the flashback title
 Universe #4–7 (Sept.–Dec. 1998). There he was retconned as a
member of the group the Monster Hunters, whose adventures took place
between the "Age of Monsters" and the "Age of Heroes". This theme would
be picked up with his appearance in issue #2 of a subsequent flashback
title, : The Lost Generation.

Doctor Druid was one of the feature characters in the 2011 three-issue
limited series Chaos War: Dead Avengers.

Doctor Druid appears briefly in Secret Avengers #20 (Feb. 2012),
written again by Ellis, drawn by Alex Maleev.


Fictional character biography

[Weird Wonder Tales #19 (Dec. 1976), an edited reprint of "I Am the
Fantastic Dr. Droom" from Amazing Adventures #1 (June 1961). Art by
Jack Kirby and Steve Ditko] Doctor Druid's real name is Dr. Anthony
Ludgate Druid, although he usually refers to himself as Dr. Anthony
Druid. He is a psychiatrist and explorer as well as a minor telepath and
magician, specializing mostly in hypnosis and other feats of mesmerism.
He has minor magical abilities that have varied over the years. He is
also an expert on the occult, having been trained by a Tibetan lama who
had come to the US for medical attention. Many years later Druid
discovered that the lama was in fact the Ancient One who selected
Anthony Druid as a back-up in case his grooming of Doctor Strange
failed. Ludgate was later revealed to be a distant descendant of the
real-life Amergin the Druid of the 10th century.

Doctor Druid remained on the sidelines for years. He eventually appeared
again and teamed with the Hulk against the Maha Yogi. With the
Avengers, he encountered the Fomor and his ancestor Amergin.

Doctor Druid some time later aided the Avengers in thwarting Baron Zemo
and the fourth Masters of Evil's takeover of Avengers Mansion, making
contact with the mentally damaged Blackout and helping him resist Zemo's
control while also prompting him to bring Avengers Mansion back to Earth
after banishing it into his Darkforce Dimension. He joined the ranks
of the Avengers shortly after helping to defend from this attack. He
battled a Dracula doppelganger in the realm of Death.

His membership was tainted when he was mind controlled by
supervillainess the Terminatrix (at the time impersonating the space
pirate Nebula) into manipulating the team on her behalf. While in this
state, he even assumed chairmanship of the team for a very short
period. When "Nebula" was cast into Limbo, Druid followed, as he was
still under her thrall. He eventually regained control of his own
mind and returned to Earth, where, after learning his true origin,
banished "Nebula" and became younger by magic.

Due to his actions while in the villain's thrall, Druid was disgraced.
He was briefly reunited with his former teammates while working with
Doctor Strange during the Infinity War, and later became leader of the
Secret Defenders. In that role, he was once again victimized by a
villain's mind control, this time by the demon Slorioth. Doctor Druid
and the demon were defeated, Druid faked his own death, and the team
disbanded.

He then abandoned his spandex costume and became even more of a real,
traditional druid, a fact reflected by his taking on the simple name of
"Druid", and the new nature of his nature powers, but he let his
feelings of rage and power lust take him over, went insane, was betrayed
by his allies, and was finally killed by Hellstorm, the putative Son of
Satan. Druid's ghost appeared later alongside the spirits of other
dead ex-Avengers, confirming that Druid had in fact died this time.
The Avengers later placed a memorial statue of him in the garden of
Avengers Mansion.

A mere 36 hours before his death, Druid is visited by a time traveling
Black Widow. He happily assisted her with magical research pertaining to
her mission, no wiser of his imminent demise.

Doctor Druid's son is introduced as one of Nick Fury's new recruits to
fight against the Secret Invasion. Secret Invasion #4 reveals that
he is operating under the name of Druid.

During the Chaos War storyline, Doctor Druid is among the dead heroes
brought back to life when Amatsu-Mikaboshi dominated the death
realms.

As part of the All-New, All-Different , Doctor Druid resurfaced
on Weirdworld. Nighthawk of Earth-31916, Blur of Earth-148611, and
Tyndall were captured by Doctor Druid's minions and taken to his castle.
He revealed to his captives that his soul took on a corporal form when
it found Weirdworld where he remained so that he can still be alive.
Doctor Druid also revealed that Ogeode built him a massive crystal on
top of his castle to amplify his mind-control abilities which brought
anyone in his part of Weirdworld under his thrall. For some reason,
Thundra and Tyndall were immune to his effects due to something related
to time-travel.


Powers and abilities

Doctor Druid's latent mystical abilities were activated by the Ancient
One. He has a variety of psionic abilities including telepathy which
enables him to scan or project his thoughts to any mind on Earth, the
ability to mesmerize minds less adept than his own, and the ability to
perform mass hypnosis. Doctor Druid's hypnotic abilities enable him to
achieve numerous illusory effects, including invisibility, altering the
appearance of himself and others, and the projection of illusionary
objects or beings. He has psychokinetic powers enabling him to levitate
himself or other people and objects. Doctor Druid has limited
precognitive abilities and can sense the presence of recent uses of
magic and trace them to their sources.

Doctor Druid's druidic powers have a special vulnerability to iron, as
did the powers of his ancestors. Iron tends to act as a lightning rod
for the magical forces he employs, sometimes disrupting their effects.

Doctor Druid employs the mystical knowledge and skills of the ancient
Druids. Through magic rituals that may involve chants, runes, candles,
potions, mystic symbols, and other such preparations, Doctor Druid can
achieve various magical feats. These rituals tap the inherent mystical
energies in natural objects and materials. Doctor Druid possesses
various Celtic mystical artifacts as well. At one time, Druid even had
access to the Moebius Stone, which was a mystic item Agamotto created
that had a limited ability to manipulate time. The stone was able to
raise the dead, absorb the life-force of another and accelerate or
reverse the passage of time within a confined area, though sometimes
random time-related side effects occurred. Doctor Druid eventually
destroyed the artifact because he felt it was too powerful to fall into
the wrong hands. Doctor Druid can also call upon the Celtic war
goddesses Morrigan, Macha, and Badb for mystical assistance. Doctor
Druid also possesses various yogic abilities including control over
involuntary functions of his body, such as his heartbeat, respiration,
bleeding, and reaction to pain.

In his latest and final incarnation, when he was called only "Druid", he
has been seen manipulating fire, and making a tree instantaneously grow
in a person's stomach from the seeds of an eaten apple. These powers
were nature-based (elements, plants, etc.) as the druids of old
worshipped nature.

Druid has earned an M.D. from Harvard, completed a residency in
psychiatry, and has extensive knowledge of occult lore, especially
Celtic lore.


Original Doctor Droom appearances

["Dr. Droom" banner, Amazing Adventures #1 (June 1961). Art by Jack
Kirby & Steve Ditko] Amazing Adventures

All reprinted in Amazing Fantasy Omnibus (2007). The previous reprints
below were edited to reflect name-change to "Dr. Druid" plus other
retcons.

-   1.  1 (June 1961)—"I Am the Fantastic Dr. Droom"

    

        Reprinted in Weird Wonder Tales #19 (Dec. 1976)

-   1.  2 (July 1961)—"The World Below"

    

        Reprinted in Weird Wonder Tales #22 (May 1977)

-   1.  3 (Aug. 1961)—"Dr. Droom Meets Zemu"

    

        Reprinted in Weird Wonder Tales #7 (Dec. 1974)

-   1.  4 (Sept. 1961)—"What Lurks Within?"

    

        Never reprinted outside Amazing Fantasy Omnibus

-   1.  6 (Nov. 1961)—"Dr. Droom Defies the Menace Called ... Krogg"

    

        Reprinted in Giant-Size Man-Thing #3 (Feb. 1975)


Other versions

Guardians of the Galaxy

In an alternate future, detailed in the Killraven series, Martians had
come to Earth and wiped out much of humanity. Doctor Druid is one of the
few survivors of the North American battles and leads a resistance
movement based in Ireland. He also works to make sure the Martian battle
is recorded in the Book of Kells.

 Apes

An alternate universe version of Dr. Druid appears in the 2008
miniseries  Apes #2–4 (Nov.-Dec. 2008). Druid plays a key role
in issue #3 (Dec. 2008) in which he uses his staff, the Monkey's Paw to
control the realm created by Doctor Strange.

 Zombies

An alternate universe version of Dr. Druid appears in the 2007
miniseries  Zombies vs. The Army of Darkness. Infected with the
zombie virus, he visits Doctor Strange seeking help to stop from
turning. With Strange having left to join the resistance, a ravenous
Druid reluctantly consumes Strange's assistant, Wong. Despite pleading
for mercy and understanding from Ash Williams, Dazzler and the Scarlet
Witch, Ash surprises Druid and blows his head off with his shotgun.

Secret Wars

An alternate version of Druid appears in the Technopolis region of
Battleworld. He acts as a forensic scientist at the city morgue, and
helps Grand Marshall Rhodes investigate the murder of Spyder-Man.

