DOMINO (NEENA THURMAN) is a fictional superhero appearing in American
comic books published by . She is best known as a member of
the X-Men offshoot X-Force. Created by writer Fabian Nicieza and
artist/co-writer Rob Liefeld, she first fully appeared in X-Force,_
vol. 1 #11 (June 1992).

In addition to her exceptional marksmanship and hand-to-hand skills,
Domino possesses mutant probability-altering powers, similar to those of
the X-Man Longshot. She often uses her skills as a mercenary, but has
also been the partner, confidante, and lover of the superhero Cable, a
lieutenant in his militant group X-Force, and a member of the X-Men.


Publication history

Apart from being a mainstay character in the first series of X-Force,_
Domino has had two limited self-titled series, one of which had her
teaming with Puck against Lady Deathstrike and Donald Pierce. The second
revealed her childhood.

Domino did not properly appear in  until after a pair of
false starts. A Domino imposter, a mutant shapeshifter named Copycat,
first appeared in New Mutants,_ vol. 1 #98 (February 1991), although
the real Domino did not appear in that issue. Domino made a brief
appearance in a flashback in X-Force,_ vol. 1 #8 (March 1992), and made
her first actual present-day appearance on the last page of issue #11
(June 1992). She appeared in a number of issues of Cable & Deadpool
and joined the first Wolverine-led X-Force as of X-Force,_ vol. 3 #8
(December 2008).

Domino appeared in her own three-issue miniseries with Wolverine
entitled X-Force: Sex and Violence,_ written by Christopher Yost and
Craig Kyle and drawn by Gabriele Dell'Otto. The story centers upon
Domino and Wolverine's mission to resolve a situation from Domino's
recent past. Chris Yost has said, "It's a chance for us to go
in-depth into a couple of the characters. In the story, Domino has a hit
put out on her and Wolverine finds out about it. Essentially, it's the
two of them going out to get that hit removed." Yost adds that the
characters are up against the worst killers on the planet.<ref
name="wizardq&a">

Domino was part of the main roster in Cable and X-Force (by Dennis
Hopeless and Salvador Larroca), from 2012 to 2014.<ref
name="Cable&X-Force"><ref name="C&XF">

Domino guest stars in the 2014 X-Force, beginning from issue #7.


Fictional character biography

The woman who would become known as Domino is actually the result of a
top-secret government breeding program intended to develop the perfect
weapon. Domino was the only test subject to survive, but her "luck"
power was deemed a failure at meeting the project's goals. Her
biological mother broke her out of the project and left her with Father
Rudolpho Boschelli in the Church of the Sacred Heart in Chicago. Domino
eventually left the Church and became a mercenary. One of her first jobs
was to stop "Operation: Jericho," which was a remote-controlled warbot
project. Domino wrecked the robot, but in the process fried the mind of
the soldier controlling it. She was then assigned to guard the genius
Dr. Milo Thurman, whose analytical ability made him too dangerous for
the government to let roam free. Somehow, Domino and Thurman fell in
love and were married, apparently officially. Thurman had a thing for
Dante's Inferno and called Domino "Beatrice." The two separated after
a raid on the facility by AIM members, with Milo believing Domino had
been killed during the altercation.

Six Pack

She then began work as a mercenary and helped found the mercenary band
the Six Pack, which introduced her to the mutant time traveler Cable.
Domino worked with the Six Pack for some time, taking on many missions
for the pure cash value. The Six Pack was very brutal in their
adventures, often shooting down entire crowds of people who got in their
way. The team, also known as the Wild Pack, went on missions in
Iran,<ref name="Blood&Steel">flashback in Cable: Blood and Steel #1–2
(October –November 1992) and participated in a raid on a HYDRA base,
which Domino participated in. During her time with the Wild Pack, she
had her first confrontations with Stryfe, Cable's evil clone, in
Afghanistan and Uruguay.

Replacement

When Cable became the leader of the New Mutants following their break
from the X-Men, "Domino" (actually Copycat) joined him as his field
leader, and stayed with the team as they changed from the New Mutants to
X-Force. When it was revealed that the real Domino was actually a
prisoner of the supervillain Tolliver for over a year, X-Force
rejected the Domino imposter and, with Cable's reassurances, planned to
rescue the real Domino and welcome her onto the team.

Meanwhile, the real Domino learned of Tolliver's destruction of
X-Force's Adirondack base, and planned her escape. Cable found her
at Tolliver's Italian home, along with her apparently murdered
double. Domino was accidentally freed by Deadpool, whom she shot.
Cable sent her to find X-Force. She escaped on Tolliver's helicopter,
and survived a fall from Tolliver's helicopter into the sea. She
found X-Force and joined the team.

Joining X-Force

Domino stayed with the team for most of its existence, becoming its de
facto leader when Cable left the team on several occasions. For a
while, she was a prisoner of the forces of Bastion, which severely
affected her mentally and physically. During X-Force's existence, Domino
had several solo adventures. During one, she was forced to kill her
mentally ill, ex–Six Pack partner Grizzly.

X-Corporation

When X-Force briefly disbanded, Domino joined the X-Corporation. While
working in their Hong Kong branch, Domino's partner, Risque, was
murdered and she summoned the core group of the X-Men to help
investigate. Together the mutants uncovered the truth behind John
Sublime's "Third Species" movement: he was harvesting body parts from
living mutants to create his U-Men. They also helped free the mutant
named Xorn.

During her solo period, Domino began to search for her mother, Beatrice,
and clues to her past. In her search Domino learned that the Project:
Armageddon, was still active. Led to a secret base in Florida, Domino
finds a mutant boy named Lazarus who had the same eye tattoo. Lazarus
imprisoned Domino there for observation. Lazarus turns out to be her
half-brother with powerful emotion controlling abilities and the true
result of the Perfect Weapon program. Soon after attempting to liberate
him, however, the Armajesuits, a fanatical group of quasi-priests who
were against the project, arrive to kill Lazarus and prevent him from
reaching his full development. Domino discovers that her mother leads
the Armajesuits and is forced to shoot her to save Lazarus's life. She
takes Lazarus to Father Boschelli and the Church she was raised in for
sanctuary, although unbeknown to her, Beatrice subsequently abducts
Lazarus from there.

Cable and Deadpool

Later, she was employed by S.H.I.E.L.D. as a member of the new Six Pack.
Alongside G. W. Bridge, Hammer, Solo, Anaconda and Constrictor, she
attacked Cable at his community Providence,_ though she quickly
defected to his side after the Six Pack was defeated by Cable and
Deadpool. Domino followed Deadpool to Rumekistan, where she assassinated
the country's dictator, Flag-Smasher, only to find out it was part of a
plan to install Cable as leader of that nation. After a conversation
with Citizen V, she then attempted to kill Cable, believing that he
would lead them to ruin. 

Civil War

During the Civil War, Domino, Shatterstar and Caliban, under the X-Force
name, lead an attack on the Xavier Institute and break out more than
half of the 198, bringing the tension between the 198 and O*N*E to a
head. After her other team, the Six Pack, disbands, she and Cable
are allies on Providence, until a fight with Hecatomb causes the island
to sink into the ocean, leaving Cable presumed dead.

Domino is later recruited by her G. W. Bridge along with Silver Sable
and the Contessa Valentina Allegra de Fontaine to track down the
Punisher. When a fake Punisher started targeting civilians, she was the
only team member to believe in Castle's innocence.

X-Force

After the Punisher stint, Domino finds Wolverine and X-Force in Tokyo
and joins them in trying to capture Vanisher. Questions to Domino's
authenticity have been raised when her luck powers fail her several
times.

On behalf of Wolverine, Domino is asked to stop in a cemetery to deliver
flowers to a deceased loved one. She encounters Spiral, Chimera and Lady
Deathstrike who have dug up Revanche's body. After a brief fight she
wounds Chimera and the women escape with the body, but Domino
manages to replace Jean Grey's body before the Red Queen could take it
as her host.

Domino and Wolverine go on a mission to resolve a situation from
Domino's past.

Domino is the first person to learn Red Hulk's identity and is marked
for death by him. Doc Samson provides Red Hulk with a list of people
(Deadpool, the Punisher, Thundra and Elektra) to kill her. When the
group arrives, they find her in a bar with the members of X-Force.
Afterwards, she reveals it was her husband who named her Domino.

X-Men (Vol 3)

Domino appears post Regenesis, as a regular member of Storm's security
team, tasked with the responsibility of safe guarding Utopia from all
foreign threats.. She fights with them during the war against the
Avengers.

Back with X-Force

After the events of Avengers vs. X-Men, Domino left Utopia like all the
mutants who lived there. She later joins Cable's new X-Force group.


Powers and abilities

Domino is a mutant with the ability to subconsciously and psionically
initiate random telekinetic acts that affect probability in her favor by
making improbable (but not impossible) things occur within her line of
sight, thus causing her to have "good luck" and her opponents to have
"bad luck." This "probability field" phenomenon can be anything from an
enemy's equipment failure to hitting just the right switch with a stray
shot to shut down an overloading nuclear reactor. The full extent of her
powers is still unknown.

This subconsciously controlled talent is triggered when she is in a
stressful situation (such as fighting or escaping). This effect
constantly emanates from her body at all times and is completely
subconscious. However, it is also largely participatory—in order for the
luck to take effect, Domino herself must engage in an action whose
chance she can affect.

For example, if debris falling from the sky was about to hit her in the
head, she would still be hurt if she stood still. However, if she tried
to avoid it, she would move perfectly to avoid each and every piece
about to hit her. In addition, if Domino were to stand before a hail of
bullets she would be a bullet-riddled corpse. Instead, she must take
action, attempting to avoid the gunfire, and would miraculously
bob-and-weave just perfectly to avoid every single shot.

As a byproduct of her abilities, Domino's cerebral cortex emits a
current of bioelectric pulses down her spine to instinctively guide her
movements during such situations, which has the added effect of
augmenting her natural reflexes and reactions to superhuman levels.

During the 198 rebellion at the Xavier Institute, Domino was able to
consciously utilize her abilities in order to affect the probability
fields of storm clouds above a group of ONE Sentinels, calling down
lightning to strike them.

Domino is also a superb markswoman with various firearms, highly skilled
athlete, excellent swimmer, and adept in use of explosives. She has
extensive training in various armed combat techniques and the martial
arts, with Olympic-gold level athletic and acrobatic ability. She also
seems to be fluent in multiple languages.

Domino wears body armor of unknown composition, and carries conventional
firearms. She has also used a staff that fires unspecified ammunition,
which can be used for balance when jumping and is equipped with sensors.
During her time as an X-Corporation operative, Domino wore contact
lenses designed by Forge, capable of night vision or, with a triple
blink, firing a high intensity laser beam.


Other characters named Domino

A male character named Domino (DOMINIC DUNSINANE) aided the Scourge of
the Underworld as an informant. He was killed by a rogue Scourge
agent named Bloodstain in U.S.Agent,_ vol. 1 #4 (September 1993)
().


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

In the Age of Apocalypse reality, Domino was a sadistic bounty hunter
working for Apocalypse, alongside her two henchmen, Caliban and Grizzly.
Domino was summoned by the Dark Lord to hunt down Nate Grey. Even though
Domino's powers gave her the advantage, she was killed by Nate, who
destroyed her mind by exposing her to all the suffering she had caused.

Earth X

In the Earth X storyline, an overweight Domino, still a member of
X-Force, was one of the many people who was a pawn of the Skull.

Skornn

In an alternate future, Domino took on the identity of Stryfe. Coming to
Earth-616, she rebuilt the Mutant Liberation Front and assisted Cable
against Skornn. Her Earth designation is Earth-5014.

Ultimate 

In the Ultimate  Universe, Domino was introduced in the second
part of the "Cable" storyline, that can be found in Ultimate X-Men
#76 (January 2007). Once again, Domino appears to be part of Cable's
team and looks just like her original counterpart.

X-Men: The End

In this alternate future of X-Men: The End, Domino, Rictor and Feral are
the only three survivors of a brutal attack directed against X-Force.
They are ambushed by shapeshifting enemies and Domino's luck runs out
when a Super Skrull posing as Wolverine drives blades through her chest.


In other media

Television

-   Domino appeared in a several quick cameos throughout the run of the
    X-Men animated series starting with the first episode "Night of
    the Sentinels." She had a cameo in the episode "Slave Island",
    voiced by Jennifer Dale.
-   Domino appeared in Wolverine and the X-Men, voiced by Gwendoline
    Yeo. She first appears in "Hindsight (Part 2)" as a member of the
    Brotherhood of Mutants. She also appears in Professor X's alternate
    future as a member of his X-Men. As her abilities are subtle in
    nature, more emphasis has been put on her marksmanship, reflected in
    otherwise impossible shots such as clearing a full table of billiard
    balls on the breaking shot.

Video games

-   Domino makes a cameo appearance in Deadpool's ending in Ultimate
     vs. Capcom 3, celebrating Wade's victory over Galactus.
-   Domino appears as a supporting character in the Deadpool
    video game. Her appearance in the game was unveiled at the 
    Video Games panel of New York Comic Con 2012. Gwendoline Yeo
    reprises her role from Wolverine and the X-Men.
-   Domino appears in  Heroes.
-   Domino is a playable character in : Avengers Alliance.

