DOMINIC FORTUNE is a fictional character appearing in American comic
books published by .


Publication history

Created by Howard Chaykin and based on the Scorpion, Chaykin's character
for the failed Atlas/Seaboard Comics company, Dominic Fortune was
originally a 1930s costumed, fortune-seeking adventurer.

He was part of 's Comics Code-free black-and-white magazine line.
His first two appearances occurred in  Preview #2 (1975, no
month) and  Super Action #1 (January 1976), a one-shot magazine.
These stories were later reprinted in  Preview #20 (Winter
1980).

He next appeared as "Dominic Fortune, Brigand For Hire" as a backup
feature in Hulk (a full-color magazine, formerly the b/w Rampaging
Hulk) #21 - #25 (June 1980 - February 1981), written by Denny O'Neil
with fully painted artwork by Chaykin. Issue #24 (December 1980)
contains a short editorial to the effect that although the magazine was
reverting to b/w from the following issue, this would be "with the
exception of the Dominic Fortune strip which will be in color through
its offbeat conclusion in issue #26." Despite this assertion, and an
advertisement in issue #25 for a Dominic Fortune story in issue #26,
issue #25's story, "Slay Bells", was the last published.
Contemporaneously, Fortune appeared in  Premiere #56 (October
1980), in a story plotted by Len Wein and laid out by Chaykin for the
never-published  Super-Action #2, and finished by David
Michelinie and Terry Austin.

Subsequently, an elderly version of the character interacted with modern
 heroes in  Team-Up #120 (August 1982), Web of
Spider-Man #10 (January 1986), Iron Man (vol. 1) #212 - #213
(November 1986 - December 1986), and Web of Spider-Man #71 - #72
(December 1990 - January 1991), with no involvement from Chaykin beyond
the cover for Web of Spider-Man #10. A flashback tale revealing
Fortune's involvement with Captain America's origin appeared in 
Super Heroes (vol. 2) #3 (September 1990)

The next appearance of Dominic Fortune was in Sable and Fortune, a
4-issue limited series published in 2006, written by Brendan Cahill and
painted by John Burns (issues #1-3) and Laurence McCubbin (#4).
Originally solicited as a six issue series, Sable and Fortune was
shortened to four issues after issue #1 was released in March 2006.
According to the letters page of #3 (May 2006) the four part-tale was
unaffected, the last two issues would have been a separate story. He
also appeared as a supporting character in  Presents
(vol. 2) #5 - 12 (February 2008 - October 2008).

In June 2009, a six part online-only digital comic Astonishing Tales:
Dominic Fortune was published as part of ' digital
initiative. Written by Dean Motter and drawn by Greg Scott, it featured
Dominic Fortune in tales set during the 1930s. This was followed in
October 2009 by a four part miniseries published under 's mature
MAX imprint. Written and illustrated by Howard Chaykin, this
miniseries was also set in the 1930s.

In November 2009,  announced the release of a Dominic
Fortune Trade Paperback book. The title reprints the 2009 MAX series
and the digital Astonishing Tales: Dominic Fortune, along with the
stories in  Preview #2 and  Premiere #56.

In 2010, Dominic Fortune was featured as a supporting character in the
series Hawkeye & Mockingbird, which lasted for six issues. He
subsequently appeared in the mini-series Widowmaker, which continued a
storyline from Hawkeye & Mockingbird.

In 2011, Fortune appeared as part of the 1959 Avengers group in New
Avengers Vol. 2, #10-13, followed by the five issue miniseries
Avengers 1959.

In 2015, Fortune appeared in S.H.I.E.L.D._ #11 in a story drawn by
Chaykin.


Fictional character biography

Duvid "David" Fortunov

Born in New York, Duvid Jerome Fortunov spent the 1920s until just after
the Wall Street Crash in 1929 on New York City's Lower East Side ''
'lying, cheating and stealing my way through life' ''. During this
time, he once saved a young Steve Rogers from a group of bullies. He
worked as an escapist on Coney Island, but not having much luck at that,
took up wing-walking and barnstorming. During this time, he pitched a
few innings of Triple-A baseball in the Jewish leagues. Sometime
after ratting out New York gangster Olga Cimaglia, Fortunov relocated
to Los Angeles, California where he changed his name to Dominic Fortune
and became a costumed adventurer for hire and a mercenary. By 1934 he
was involved in the Chaco War between Bolivia and Paraguay - fighting as
a pilot for both sides before returning to Los Angeles, where he took a
job guarding three '' 'out of control and drunken' '' film stars.
Trying to unravel a plot to kill him, he travelled to Berlin for the
1936 Olympic Games, and eventually foiled a plot by American Fifth
Columnists to kill President Roosevelt and his wife and gain important
funding from the Germans and Italians to support Nazi sympathisers in
the U.S. Not long afterwards, he fell in with Sabbath Raven, the
owner of the Mississippi Queen, a floating casino moored just outside
US territorial waters, where he enjoyed a romantic relationship with her
and they shared many of his adventures.

In 1937, in an adventure in Europe he encountered Dr. Doom's parents and
later Captain America villains Baron Von Strucker and Baron Zemo and
spent some time in Latveria and in Wakanda in Africa while foiling Nazi
weapons intrigues involving the as-yet unnamed mineral Vibranium. Not
long afterwards, having been evicted from his office, he began living
aboard the Mississippi Queen at Sabbath's invitation. In that same
year, he uncovered a Nazi propaganda plot in the comic book
industry. He also broke up a cult of zombies, thwarted Baron
Strucker's attempted assassination of a U.S. senator, exposed the
phony "child star" Tina Timmons, and rescued the British ambassador
from a terrorist.

In 1938, he prevented Jacob Einhorn, a property magnate, from selling
U.S. secrets to the Japanese in exchange for land after their planned
invasion. He also prevented silent movie star Noble Flagg and
gangster Olga Cimaglia from taking over the LA underworld. In the
spring, he met Timothy "Dum Dum" Dugan and helped him save his circus
from a group of thugs hired by the wealthy Spencer Keene.

Early in 1940, he defeated a group of Nazi saboteurs who had taken over
the Dean Brothers Circus in Chicago. Later that same year, he foiled
a Nazi plot to steal top secret plans from a munitions factory. In
May, he lost contact with Sabbath Raven after an argument in a bar in
Rotterdam just before the Nazi invasion of the city. After failing
to find her, Fortune returned to the U.S. He was rejected as a
subject for Project: Rebirth, but helped protect the man who was chosen,
Steve Rogers (who would become Captain America) from Nazi agents. In
1942, he met the Sub-Mariner during the Murmansk Run. He returned to
the war as a G.I. in 1943. In the final days of the war, Fortune was
responsible for killing the leader of the Dark Ocean Society, After
the war, he continued his search for Sabbath, but again failed.

In 1959, while in Paris, Fortune was recruited by Nick Fury to be a
member of the "Avengers Initiative". This included working with
Sabretooth, Ulysses Bloodstone and other still-extant 
characters. After helping to defeat a Neo-Nazi version of the Red
Skull in Sweden, Fortune's criminal record was wiped clean.

Eventually, Fortune returned to America and resumed being David
Fortunov. He established himself as a Pontiac salesman in Nassau County,
New York (becoming 'Nassau County Champion Salesman' in 1965), where he
married and had two children. He eventually retired to Restwell
Nursing Home, NY after the death of his wife, but came out of
retirement to battle Turner D. Century alongside Spider-Man, after
which he vowed to take back up his search for Sabbath Raven. Some time
after this he left the rest home, then alongside Spider-Man battled the
Shocker, who was working for Simon Steele, an old adversary of Fortune's
who he had been investigating in the hope of finding clues to the fate
of Sabbath.

He later aided Iron Man in his battle with the Iron Monger, once
again an employee of Simon Steele. Fortune's son Jerry witnessed the
battle and, believing his father killed, swore revenge. Donning his
father's costume, Jerry Fortunov became the new Dominic Fortune,
though after finding his father still alive he was killed by Steele,
taking a shot meant for his father. Iron Man then informed Fortune
that the Sabbath he had seen with Steele while in captivity was in fact
Sabbath Raven's daughter Elena by Steele's brother (Sabbath's first
husband) Heinrich von Lundt.

Seeking vengeance for his son's murder, with the help of Spider-Man,
Dominic Fortune tracked Steele and the younger Sabbath Raven to New
York, only to discover that Steele had married Fortune's Sabbath
many years before. Eventually Fortune, Spider-Man and Silver Sable
corner Steele hiding aboard the ageing remains of the Mississippi
Queen and Fortune was reunited with the original Sabbath Raven.

In 1991, Fortune was in The Philippines for the eruption of Mt.
Pinatubo.

Later, Fortune found and replicated a flawed Super-Soldier serum that
Mockingbird helped create. After ingesting it, he was de-aged and lost
his memory for a short time.

In 2006, the newly de-aged Dominic Fortune joined forces with Silver
Sable to stop the plans of traitors from within Silver Sable's own Wild
Pack. At that time Fortune worked as a P.I., but was also shown to
be working with a government black ops group called the Vanguard.

After he regained his memory and aged overnight, he decided to join
Mockingbird's organization, the World Counter-terrorism Agency to stay
close to her, making sure the Super-Soldier serum's creator was there to
help him if the side-effects got worse.

In 2015, he was revealed to have again aged (although still younger than
his actual 100+ years) and living back onboard the Mississippi Queen,
left to him by the deceased Sabbath Raven. He enlisted the help of
S.H.I.E.L.D. field director Phil Coulson to help him reacquire the ship
after losing it while gambling with Hydra agent Tug Freehand.

Jerry Fortunov

When Jerry Fortunov thought that his father had been killed, he
swore vengeance on the Iron Monger. Donning his father's costume, Jerry
Fortunov became the new Dominic Fortune. Jerry Fortunov's career as
Dominic Fortune was short. Discovering that his father was alive Jerry,
with help from Iron Man, attacked the estate of Simon Steele. He was
fatally injured in the battle, shot by Simon Steele, and died in his
father's arms.


Abilities and equipment

In his prime, David Fortunov was an athletic man. He was also a superb
hand-to-hand combatant and excellent boxer, and an expert marksman and
swordsman. In modern times, despite his advanced age, David is in
excellent physical condition and still retains much of his physical
skills; he does, however, tire easily.

While less physically skilled than his father, Jerry Fortunov was a
skilled tax lawyer with some training in marksmanship.

Dominic Fortune uses a variety of handguns, particularly the Mauser C96,
using 9 mm parabellum ammunition.


In other media

The character is scheduled to appear as a series regular in ABC's
upcoming series 's Most Wanted, played by Delroy Lindo.


Footnotes

