NIGHT THRASHER (DONYELL TAYLOR), also known as BANDIT, is a fictional
character from . He first appeared in Night Thrasher
(vol. 2) #3 (October 1993), and was created by Fabian Nicieza and Ken
Lashley. Donyell is the older half-brother of Dwayne Michael Taylor,
the original Night Thrasher.


Fictional character biography

[Donyell Taylor as Bandit, art by Darick Robertson.] DONYELL TAYLOR is
the product of a one night stand between his unnamed mother and Daryl
Taylor, father of Dwayne Taylor. Daryl Taylor was a rich business man
who had turned the inheritance from the deaths of his parents into a
hundred times the amount he was given. With it he set up charitable
foundations like the Taylor Foundation. Daryl had been married to
Dwayne's mother Melody since they were 18 years old. Daryl met Donyell's
mother while at the bar in the Fairmont Hotel in Chicago. Daryl paid
Donyell's mother a check worth six figures to keep quiet of their affair
after she revealed she was pregnant. Donyell resented Dwayne for having
the money and the family he never had. Dwayne resented the notion that
his life was somehow any better because he barely remembered his
parents, who were murdered by Silhouette's father Andrew Chord.

Donyell took the name Bandit and began targeting Night Thrasher's old
foes to prove he was superior to Dwayne. Dwayne would later endure a
severe beating at Bandit's hands. Later wanting a rematch, Bandit
abducts Silhouette keeping her tied to a chair under blinding lights in
order to lure Dwayne into a confrontation, but Dwayne wins the
rematch. Donyell begins sleeping with Silhouette soon afterwards.
When Night Thrasher, Silhouette, and various other members of the New
Warriors are sent back in time Donyell joins Hindsight Lad, Sprocket,
and his father's killer Andrew Chord in creating a new team of New
Warriors to save the originals. The team consisted of Bandit, Hindsight
Lad, Turbo, Darkhawk, Dagger, and Powerpax. Donyell later comes to terms
with his half-brother, finding common ground during their battle against
the Sphinx when the Warriors were returned to the proper time period.

Donyell and Silhouette quit the New Warriors soon after and moved to
Chicago. This was the last time that they were seen for several
years. The next time Donyell shows up, he has apparently been seeing
Gambit's ex-wife Belladonna for a few months. No one knows what exactly
happened between Silhouette and Bandit in Chicago that caused them to
separate. It is clear by their conversation at Dwayne's grave site that
they are no longer a couple.

The Initiative

After the Stamford accident, Donyell Taylor had taken over the Taylor
Foundation at the death of his half-brother. It is also revealed that
Donyell suffered from a car accident that caused his legs to be
amputated. Donyell denies involvement in the latest incarnation of the
New Warriors. However, he reveals that a large amount of money was
drained from the Taylor Foundation against his wishes and only he and
his brother Dwayne had access to those accounts.

Later it is revealed that Donyell Taylor did not, in fact, lose his legs
at all. The last panel shows him standing up and staring out of a
window, with the image of Night Thrasher behind him, suggesting that he
took his brother's alias and costume, and now leads the New Warriors.
Apparently, Dwayne and Donyell reconciled at some point, as he is seen
expressing regret for the earlier hostility in their relationship at
Dwayne's grave.

Donyell considered disbanding the New Warriors after teammate Longstrike
was murdered by one of the members of the new Zodiac. The remaining
members convince him not to. Donyell has problems with Wondra sowing
seeds of dissent among the rest of the group. Donyell frequently
disappears during battles and does not divulge his comings and goings
with his teammates. He downloaded information from Machinesmith, who he
claimed was creating a techno-organic virus.

It is revealed that Donyell has taken in abused children and teenagers
such as Kaz, Aja, and Grace to help him by making them members of the
New Warriors support staff. They have helped in turning one of Arcade's
former hideouts into a base for the team. He rescued each of them from
abusive environments and has been trying to give them a new life.

Secret Invasion

When the Skrulls invade earth, Donyell begins to wonder if the Night
Thrasher that perished in Stamford was actually a Skrull. He travels to
one of the New Warriors old safe houses, hoping to acquire a sample of
his brother's DNA. Justice and his Counter Initiative arrive, and attack
Donyell, believing him to be a Skrull impostor. They ask him if he is or
is not Dwayne, which he doesn't answer, which just escalates things. The
rest of the New Warriors then arrive on the scene.

A battle occurs between the two teams, but is quickly stopped by
Donyell, who then shocks both groups by revealing his identity. They
call a truce after Donyell asks Justice to help him find Dwayne's body.
They arrive at a S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier where Justice believe it is
being held, only to find it under siege by a Skrull assault force. While
the Warriors and the Counter Initiative battle the Skrulls and evacuate
the surviving S.H.I.E.L.D. agents, Donyell and Justice find Dwayne's
corpse, along with the remains of Microbe and Namorita. Donyell takes a
sample of Dwayne's DNA and runs it through his armor's computer, then
does the same with Microbe and Namorita. The results test positive and
Donyell tells Justice that they're taking the bodies with them. Justice
agrees and the two teams depart as Army reinforcements arrive to deal
with the remaining Skrulls. Later, the two teams bury the remains of
their friends in a short memorial service and part on good terms.

Blood and Iron

Following a confrontation with S.H.I.E.L.D.'s "capekillers", Skybolt and
Ripcord are killed, and Donyell revealed that he had been working on a
time machine, so that he could save the former New Warriors from their
deaths in Stamford, and by extension, the New Warriors who had perished
since then. When the machine is activated, it instead sends the New
Warriors into a future where Iron Man has taken the Registration Act to
the extreme, a future where all superpowered beings have been removed
from the general populace, and the people are under a rule of tyranny.
Confronting Iron Man, Donyell discovers that it is not Tony Stark in the
suit, but Dwayne, returned from the dead. Despite having misgivings
about Dwayne's totalitarian rule, Donyell's need to reconnect with his
brother leads him to betray and capture the other New Warriors.
However, after Dwayne kills Tony Stark (who in this timeline had taken
on the identity of Night Thrasher) in cold blood, Donyell comes to his
senses, rescuing the others and freeing the incarcerated superheroes.
Donyell is then attacked by Dwayne, and is forced to kill him. Upon
their return to the present, Donyell disbands the New Warriors,
believing they will never be able to trust him again.

Dark Reign

Later, a man with a Night Thrasher outfit appears among the Counter
Force members that arrive at Camp Hammond during the assault of the Thor
clone called Ragnarok. He is later confirmed to be Donyell Taylor,
who becomes the group's benefactor (and second in command) when the
group goes on the run from Norman Osborn, changing the group name to
"Avengers Resistance". When the Avengers Resistance aids the
seceding Heavy Hitters against a group of other Initiative teams,
Donyell is shot in the head by Taskmaster. He survives, and is captured
by Osborn and the Hood, who make an offer to bring his brother back.
However, the Avengers Resistance comes to rescue him.

While Counter Force moves to a new hideout, Donyell stays behind now
that Norman Osborn knows who he is.

Siege

Counter Force hears about the incident at Soldier Field involving
Volstagg and the U-Foes. Justice deduces that Norman Osborn orchestrated
this. While Counter Force contacts the Mighty Avengers and the New
Avengers, Donyell is advised to send e-mails containing evidence of the
U-Foes' payoffs, which Donyell objected stating that Norman Osborn would
make up some excuse to cover it. Justice concludes that they will have
to attack Camp H.A.M.M.E.R. to expose Norman Osborn for what he is.

When visiting his brother's grave, Donyell is conflicted if he should go
with the deal Norman Osborn and the Hood gave him. Counter Force takes
the fight to Camp H.A.M.M.E.R. and ends up fighting the Hood's gang.
They are knocked down by the Hood's new Asgardian weaponry. When Donyell
arrives, the Hood gives him an opportunity to prove himself by killing
Tigra.

The Hood demands that Donyell kill Tigra if he wants his brother
revived. Instead, Donyell attacks the Hood and is joined by Tigra as the
Hood uses the Norn Stones to empower some of the cadets on his side.


Powers and abilities

Bandit is a mutant with bioelectrical powers similar to an electric eel
that require physical contact and a conductive medium to work. He can
channel an electrical charge strong enough to stun, injure, or kill
through someone just by touching them. He augments the range of this
power by shooting special wire-tethered quarrels from his wristbow. He
has also demonstrated superhuman speed and reflexes on par with
Midnight's Fire and Silhouette. Donyell is an accomplished marksman,
acrobat, and martial artist.

Equipment

Bandit carries a specialized wrist mounted crossbow, that fires
wire-tethered quarrels tipped with miniature grappling barbs which would
penetrate an opponent's flesh and then open up beneath the skin. He then
uses his powers to send a debilitating bio-electric charge along the
electrically conductive tether, basically making himself a living taser.
He also carries a variety of throwing stars.

His Night Thrasher armor, apart from giving him added protection,
enables him to project form-energy weapons, such as a bo staff, escrima
sticks, and wrist blades. At one point he banged the sticks together to
create an energy shockwave. He also displayed a jet pack and used Pym
Particles to shrink himself and others down.

Donyell is an accomplished thief and scientist, it is reveled in New
Warriors, Vol. 4, that he was able to empower de-powered mutants by
stealing powerful technology from the likes of the Avengers. The full
capabilities of this knowledge are unknown, but he is feasibly capable
of producing incredibly powerful enhancing technology/exoskeletons.


Other versions

What if?

An alternate version of Donyell was revealed in What If...? vol. 2 #81,
living in the Age of Apocalypse. When that world got attacked by
Galactus, Bandit was killed in battle. One of the main features of the
story was the fact that Donyell and his brother Night Thrasher were more
reconciled emotionally than they are in the 616 universe.

