DOORMAN (DEMARR DAVIS) is a fictional character, a mutant superhero
appearing in American comic books published by . Created by
John Byrne, he is a member of the Great Lakes Avengers and first
appeared in the pages of the West Coast Avengers in 1989.


Fictional character biography

Little is known of Doorman's life before he responded to Mr. Immortal's
advertisement for a hero team. This team would eventually become the
Great Lakes Avengers. It has been revealed, however, that he is a mutant
and has an African-American complexion.

Before joining the Great Lakes Avengers, DeMarr Davis was an average
American youngster. Sometime during his years in college, DeMarr's
mother died. After completing four years of college and three years of
graduate school, DeMarr decided to answer Mr. Immortal's newspaper ad
asking "costumed adventurers" to join together and form a team. DeMarr,
being a mutant and possessing his unique teleporting ability, is able to
allow his teammates entrance into almost any structure, thus creating
both a stealthy entrance as well as a surprise attack. He joined the
original incarnation of the Great Lakes Avengers.

He was first seen in public with the team by Hawkeye and Mockingbird,
who later agreed to become their mentors. With the team, he helped
Hawkeye and the West Coast Avengers against "That Which Endures."
They also assisted Mockingbird in a holding action against Terminus.
After aiding the Thunderbolts against the villain Graviton, the team
clashed with the mercenary Deadpool.

Doorman is, however, the most cynical of the Great Lakes Avengers,
constantly comparing the team to the real Avengers, usually at the most
inappropriate times, and feeling at times embarrassed by his friends.
Nonetheless, DeMarr cares for them deeply, and values each and every
member of the team.

GLA

During the G.L.A._ mini-series, the team took on Maelstrom who was
trying to destroy the universe. After Dinah Soar's death, Mr.
Immortal suffers a nervous break down leading Flatman and Doorman to
search for new members. They went to New York City, where they failed to
recruit a number of heroes. While in Central Park, they're saved by
Squirrel Girl and her sidekick Monkey Joe from muggers. They offer to
recruit her in the team and she accepts. Later, they hear an alarm on a
nearby factory and encounter the Grasshopper, who was battling Batroc
the Leaper and his minions. During the battle, Flatman offers to recruit
him and Grasshopper quickly accepts, only to be instantly killed by
Zaran, one of Batroc's minions, who threw a sai that passed through
Doorman and landed on his head. DeMarr feels that it is his fault
that Grasshopper died and therefore sunk into a slight depression.
During this time, he also tried to scare Squirrel Girl off the team,
because he feared that she would also die while in service to the GLA,
but he later apologizes to her.

During the final battle, Doorman gets killed, sacrificing himself so
that Mr. Immortal could stop Maelstrom. In the afterlife, he met the
other deceased GLA members including Grasshopper who forgave him.
Doorman was, however, intrigued by the absence of Hawkeye, until
Mockingbird tells him that he became the new Swordsman. Shortly
afterwards, the cosmic entity Oblivion summoned him declaring that he
could prove useful to him because of his connection to the Darkforce
Dimension, akin to Deathurge, who had been recently captured by Mr.
Immortal. Doorman therefore replaced Deathurge and became Oblivion's new
angel of death. Taking Deathurge's place, Doorman took Maelstrom to the
afterlife, after he was tricked into killing himself by Mr. Immortal,
and was able to return to the GLA. As a servant of Oblivion, he is able
to summon skis to fly and is intangible. Doorman continues to be a
member of the GLA. However, after he helped his friends save the
universe from Maelstrom, he understands the team's importance and has a
newfound respect for them. After receiving a subpoena from the real
Avengers and discovering that they were all mutants, the team decided to
change their name to the Great Lakes X-Men, complete with new
costumes.

GLX-Mas Special

During the GLX-Mas Special, the team confronted Dr. Tannenbaum, who
had released an army of living Christmas trees on the citizens of
Wisconsin. Later, Doorman informed the team that he had to go and visit
his father. Upon reaching his father's house, his father quickly
complained that DeMarr was throwing his life away and needed to join the
real world. He told his son that he had "stupid powers" and "all the
other heroes have better powers than you." Realizing that his own
happiness was more important than his father's respect, DeMarr finally
admitted the truth to his father: that he had died and came back as an
angel of death. He had not come back to visit his father but rather to
collect his soul, as he had fallen off the roof while setting up
Christmas lights and died. Ironically, the revelation of DeMarr's new
role in the universe greatly pleased his father, who couldn't wait to
brag to all his friends in heaven about how his son was the new angel of
death.

Great Lakes Champions

The team participated in a charity superhero poker tournament hosted by
the Thing, where Flatman beat their host in the final round. Flatman's
status as champion inspired the team to rename themselves the Great
Lakes Champions, after being discouraged from affiliation with both the
X-Men and the Defenders by members of those teams present at the
tournament, ignoring the protests of former Champions of Los Angeles
member Hercules.

Civil War/The Initiative

All of the Great Lakes Champions have registered with the United States
government as required by the Superhuman Registration Act, as revealed
when Deadpool mistakenly attempted to apprehend them for violating the
Act, only to be defeated and informed that they had already
registered.

DeMarr has been identified as one of the 142 registered superheroes who
appear on the cover of the comic book Avengers: The Initiative #1.

Doorman and his teammates became the Initiative group in charge of
Wisconsin, calling themselves the Great Lakes Initiative. They were
given a rescue mission to save Dionysus after he fell from Mount Olympus
and was captured by A.I.M., who planned to use his powers to cause
mental instability on all the superheroes they consider a threat. During
the task, Deadpool ambushes Mr. Immortal and Flatman. Flatman recruited
him as a reserve member of the team but the mercenary eventually
overstayed his welcome. After many failed attempts, Deadpool is kicked
out of the group by Squirrel Girl.

Secret Invasion

During the Secret Invasion storyline, the team confronted a Skrull
disguised as Grasshopper, with help from Gravity and Catwalk. They
later appeared to welcome Gravity as leader of the team, after he was
transferred to Wisconsin by Norman Osborn.

Fear Itself

During the Fear Itself storyline, the team confronts Asbestos Man, who
takes advantage of the fear and chaos that is happening. None of the
group actually wish to touch the man due to the toxicity of his suit.
Mr. Immortal talks him into giving up in return for being remembered by
the others.


Powers and abilities

Doorman is capable of teleporting someone anywhere, but with the
limitation that it has to be in the next room and with his own body
serving as a portal of sorts. His mutant ability operates by tapping
into the Darkforce Dimension, as several other  Universe
teleporters do (such as Cloak, the Vanisher, Silhouette, etc.). He also
had the ability to levitate. Originally, his all-black appearance was a
costume of apparently conventional material with stark white eyepieces
in the mask as contrast. However, since becoming Oblivion's servant his
"body" seems to be an assumed shape rather than a simple costume, and he
can transform at will from this form to his non-costumed self.

He also gained intangibility, flight via skis that he can summon at will
and the ability to collect the souls of the recently deceased and
deliver them to Oblivion. While doing so, he appears visible only to the
soul he is collecting and possibly also his teammate Mr. Immortal, who
could perceive Deathurge.


Appearance

After dying and being resurrected by Oblivion to become its new "angel
of death", Doorman's appearance has changed as he now possesses white
gloves, boots and a cape, and skis: the trademarks of his predecessor
Deathurge. In fact, his only difference in appearance from Deathurge are
the white "eyes" that were once the eyepieces of his original costume.

