DRAGON LORD is the name of several unrelated fictional characters
appearing in American comic books published by .


Publication history

The first Dragon Lord appeared in Sub-Mariner #52-54 (August–October
1972), and was created by Bill Everett and Mike Friedrich.

The Dragon Lord Yu-Ti first appeared in  Premiere #15 (May
1974), and was created by Roy Thomas and Gil Kane. The character
subsequently appears in Deadly Hands of Kung Fu #10 (March 1975),
 Premiere #22 (June 1975), Master of Kung Fu Annual #1 (1976),
Deadly Hands of Kung Fu #21 (February 1976), Iron Fist #6-7
(August–September 1976),  Team-Up #64 (December 1977), Power
Man and Iron Fist #74-75 (October–November 1981), and Immortal Iron
Fist #4-8 (May–October 2007), and #10-14 (December 2007-June 2008).

Tako Shamara first appeared in  Spotlight (vol. 2) #5 (March,
1980), and was created by Marv Wolfman and Steve Ditko. In his first
appearance the character battled a huge dragon from the past called a
Wani, a monster that destroyed his ancestors' villages in 1582. The
creature that Tako battled was intended to be Godzilla but since 
no longer had the rights to the character (which lapsed the previous
year) the creature was modified to a dragon called The Wani.

Ral Dorn, the Dragon Lord, appeared in Fantastic Four Annual #16
(1981), and was created by Ed Hannigan and Steve Ditko.


History

Dragon Lord I

The DRAGON LORD was a fanatic bent on avenging Japan's defeat in World
War II. Although blind, he appears to be able to "see" mentally. He used
Sunfire as an ally, but Namor later convinced Sunfire of Dragon Lord's
intentions to conquer the world for his own benefit. The two heroes
stopped Dragon Lord's plans and destroyed his base. {{-}}

Nu-An

NU-AN is the Yu-Ti (a name given to the rulers of K'un-Lun) who also
uses the alias of Dragon Lord as did his father Lord Tuan.

Tako Shamara

Dragon Lord later appears in Camp Hammond, as an official recruit for
the Initiative, along with Ant-Man, Crusader, Melee, Geldoff, Geiger,
Red Nine, and Diamondback. Shamara was killed when the clone of MVP
known as K.I.A. attacked the group of new trainees. The surviving
trainees, along with Triathlon and the Taskmaster presented his ashes
and a flag to Shamara's family at their Long Island home. Shamara's son
stated that he intends to honor his father by taking up his mantle.
{{-}}

Ral Dorn

RAL DORN was a human of Earthly parentage who leads the Dragon Riders of
the extradimensional world of Rammatpolen. The Dragon Riders use dragons
as mounts in their journeys through time and space. Ral Dorn has used
the Dragon Man as his own mount.

{{-}}


Powers and abilities

Nu-An has some degree of combat skills, but he shows minimal skills.
Apparently, he is immune to aging due to him eating a fruit from the
Tree of Immortality.

The Tako Shamara version of the Dragon Lord could summon dragons and
control them through elixirs created in his cauldron. He was mocked by
Taskmaster for this flaw, who felt that such an ability would not be
useful in combat due to its time-consuming nature.

