TIMOTHY ALOYSIUS CADWALLADER "DUM DUM" DUGAN is a fictional character
appearing in American comic books published by . He is an
officer of S.H.I.E.L.D. and is one of the most experienced members of
Nick Fury's team, known for his marksmanship with rifles and impressive
physique. He is recognized for his trademark bowler hat.

Neal McDonough appeared as the character in the 2011  Studios film
Captain America: The First Avenger, the 2013  Studios short film
Agent Carter (post-credits) and also in 2015 in the 5th episode of
's Agent Carter.


Publication history

Dum Dum Dugan first appeared in Sgt. Fury and his Howling Commandos #1
(May 1963), and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby.

Dum Dum Dugan received an entry in the Official Handbook of the 
Universe Update '89 #2.


Fictional character biography

Dum Dum Dugan was originally portrayed as a British citizen in Sgt Fury
#1, but later retconned to be born in Boston, Massachusetts. During
World War II, while working as a circus strongman, Dugan helps Nick Fury
and Sam "Happy" Sawyer escape the Nazis during a mission, recounted in
issue #34. Dugan joins the British Army, and when Sawyer is charged with
creating Fury's First Attack Squad, formally listed as "Able Company"
and nicknamed the Howling Commandos, Sawyer invites Dugan to transfer
into the US Army and become Fury's second-in-command. Dugan's
exceptional strength saves the day in several of his adventures in the
Sgt. Fury comic books. Dugan is an enlisted man with the rank of
corporal, and wears the chevrons of his rank on the front top of his
trademark bowler hat throughout WWII.

Dugan leaves the U.S. Army before the Korean Conflict, but rejoins
during the Korean War as Second Lieutenant under the promoted First
Lieutenant Fury, once again as his second-in-command of the reformed
Howling Commandos. Fury had already received a battlefield promotion to
Second Lt. earlier. Dugan remains with Fury when Fury continues his
military career into the Vietnam War, as shown in Sgt. Fury and his
Howling Commandos Annual #3 and 4, and later into espionage work.
Dugan's exact rank is not stated, but is he addressed as "Captain" at
one point. He remains with Fury when Fury goes into the CIA and later
into the original S.H.I.E.L.D.

Different accounts state that Dugan and other members of Fury's Howling
Commandos receive the Infinity Formula to explain how they all remain
youthful and active despite being all into their 60s and 70s in the
modern era. Other stories contradict this artificial maintenance of
youth by Dugan as merely dyeing his hair and suffering a heart
attack.

Later on in life, he is placed in charge of internal security on the
S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier.

Dum Dum is placed in charge of a SHIELD Unit coined The Godzilla
Squad, charged with the task of tracking and stopping the radioactive
kaiju. Over the twenty-four issue series, Dugan goes from loathing
the creature's destructive tendencies to accepting the beast's existence
after Godzilla saves him on numerous occasions. Dugan later recalls a
long list of his greatest nightmares, one of which includes Godzilla.

After suffering his heart attack, Dugan is formally promoted to Fury's
permanent second-in-command of S.H.I.E.L.D. as "Deputy Director",
though he has acted as such before his formal appointment.

Power struggles

In  Graphic Novel #18: She-Hulk, Dum Dum Dugan ran S.H.I.E.L.D.
during one of Nick Fury's absences. His authority is usurped by the
craven, sex-obsessed agent Roger Dooley. She-Hulk and her boyfriend
Wyatt Wingfoot are illegally captured. Dugan protests Dooley's forcible
strip-search of She-Hulk in public but is overruled. His authority is
regained when Dooley is killed in action.

Nick Fury vs. S.H.I.E.L.D. (1988)

During the Nick Fury vs. S.H.I.E.L.D._ six issue series, Dum Dum Dugan
and, later, the entirety of S.H.I.E.L.D., deal with another mutiny from
within. Dugan was shown to have been shot to death while taking out the
trash. In this series, Hydra was revealed to have been a sister
organization of S.H.I.E.L.D., with both directly controlled by the
mysterious council, who had replaced many of the organization's top
brass - including Deputy Director Dugan - with Life Model Decoy android
duplicates in order to speed the survival of the fittest selection
process that the council had been forcing between the two organizations
over the decades. All the officers who were thought to be killed were
shown to have been replaced with Life Model Decoy android replacements
and were found alive. Dugan retires, along with many of the older
officers, at the end of this series. Dugan's retirement does not last
long, as he rejoins Fury when the next version of S.H.I.E.L.D. (now
known as Strategic Hazard Intervention Espionage Logistics Directorate)
is created.

Dugan calls on Squirrel Girl to help him take down various
supervillains.

With Nick Fury's absence at the S.H.I.E.L.D. headquarters, Dugan is
placed second-in-command to Maria Hill. Dugan is put in charge of mutant
affairs, and deals with Wolverine. Dugan apparently knows a dire secret
to Logan's past.

Civil War

In 's Civil War crossover, Dum Dum Dugan and several other
S.H.I.E.L.D. agents are sent to capture his fugitive friend Captain
America. The entire group is defeated. He expresses regret to fellow
agent Sharon Carter for trying to capture his friend. He also states
his concerns about losing faith in S.H.I.E.L.D due to the war and the
way the organization is run under Director Maria Hill.

After the events of Civil War and as Tony Stark takes over as director
of S.H.I.E.L.D., Dugan turns in his letter of resignation, stating that
he does not approve of the changes Stark has made, or the way he runs
the organization. Dugan's resignation is not accepted however, as he is
too vital to S.H.I.E.L.D.; despite his disapproval of Stark's
leadership, Stark still trusts Dugan, and Dugan alone, with the command
of a weapon that could send an abandoned Manhattan into the Negative
Zone, destroying the island and anyone inside during World War Hulk,
stating that Hulk and Warbound are too dangerous a global threat to
leave Manhattan free. Stark trusts that Dugan will know the appropriate
time to execute the plan, if at all. Dugan never used the weapon.

Dugan later proved his worth and loyalty to S.H.I.E.L.D during a
confrontation with Maria Hill, where he forced her to confront the fact
that she was apparentlly willing to take actions that would allow
innocent people to die while still sticking to 'the book' because the
alternative was to disobey orders, informing her that some situations
weren't in 'the book'. Inspired by Dugan's words, Hill ended up
putting her career on the line by locking down the United Nations under
S.H.I.E.L.D. martial law so Stark could escape a tribunal and track down
the Mandarin, with Dugan providing Stark with a version of the Silver
Centurion armor after his Extremis abilities were deactivated.

Dum Dum is stabbed through the chest by Daken (Wolverine's son).

Secret Invasion

It was later revealed that, shortly after Captain America's death, Dugan
was ambushed and stabbed by a Skrull impersonating Contessa Valentina
Allegra de la Fontaine who then took his place. The Dugan impostor
destroys the Peak, S.W.O.R.D.'s Orbital base, in a suicide strike that
allows the Skrull armada to invade Earth. After the invasion, Iron
Man discovers the Skrull kidnap victims alive and well, including Dum
Dum. Dugan is later shown in a support group meeting with the others
that had been replaced by Skrulls. Dugan wanted to leave immediately but
was convinced to stay.

Secret Warriors

After a confrontation that goes badly between Nick Fury's Secret
Warriors and The Gorgon, Fury calls up Dum Dum Dugan's "Howling
Commandos" PMC for help in Fury's missions, needing "a couple of nasty
old bastards with a bad habit of shooting first and asking questions
later." Dugan learns that the new S.H.I.E.L.D. organization has been
controlled by their old enemies HYDRA right from the start, the same
as the older incarnations of S.H.I.E.L.D. Dugan later shows up in
Fury's efforts to bring down HYDRA and yet another secretive
organization, the Russian LEVIATHAN. Dugan and Jasper Sitwell soon
became all that is left of the Howling Commandos PMC after battles with
HYDRA and LEVIATHAN and are arrested by the U.N.. At the end of Secret
Warriors, Dugan and Sitwell were released.

Dugan is recruited as part of a multi-verse wide effort to stop a
supernatural-powered Nazi zombie army. Assisted by Howard The Duck he
takes a team of warriors to the affected reality and manages to
neutralize the threat at the source.

A HYDRA group attempts to devastate civilization via super-powered
shock-troops and media that inflames people's personal beliefs into
irrationality. Dugan leads the effort in destroying this group, often
with high explosives. He works closely with Sharon Carter and the
Falcon. Dugan is severely wounded in the upper arm but recovers.

Original Sin

During the Original Sin storyline, it is revealed that the real Dum
Dum Dugan was killed in 1966, and Nick Fury had him replaced with an
advanced LMD; Fury claimed that this was done because he didn't want to
lose his best friend and felt that he needed Dugan to serve as his
conscience. When the LMD Dugan finds out, he accuses Fury of doing this
so that he could feel guilty about things, reasoning that Fury could
convince himself that he was still a hero if he felt bad about his
actions as the man on the wall. Telling Fury not to bring him back again
if they were ever friends, Dugan then shoots himself in the head.

Involvement with S.T.A.K.E.

Months later, Maria Hill deemed necessary to bring the LMD of Dugan back
and removed the blocks that prevented his resurrection so he could
return to Area 13 and help S.T.A.K.E. (short for the Special Threat
Assessment for Known Extranormalities).

Dum Dum Dugan is later appointed to lead the latest incarnation of the
Howling Commandos.

During the Avengers: Standoff!_ storyline, Dum Dum Dugan discovered
that Dr. Paul Kraye had Maria Hill imprison Orrgo at Pleasant Hill. Upon
locating Pleasant Hill, Dum Dum Dugan leads the Howling Commandos to
Pleasant Hill where they fight past the inmates. When they confront
Kobik, she teleports the Howling Commandos back to S.T.A.K.E. HQ. Once
back at S.T.A.K.E. HQ, Dum Dum Dugan learns from Orrgo that Paul Kraye
released all the inmates there to cause havoc causing the Howling
Commandos to spring into action.


Other versions

[Nick Fury and Dum Dum Dugan in The Transformers from .]

1602

In  1602, the commander of Sir Nicholas Fury's soldiers is named
Dougan. In 1602: New World, he is the defender of the Roanoke
Colony.

Earth X

Dugan appears, on the other side of the afterlife, in the climactic
battle against Mephisto's forces in Earth X Volume 1, issue 'X'. Along
with multiple modern superheroes, Dugan fights with many of his old
'Howling Commandos' comrades. He had perished due to being taken by the
Hydra entity.

The Transformers

Dum Dum Dugan and Nick Fury show up in the issue "Prisoner of War!" from
The Transformers as guest characters along with Peter Parker and Joe
Robertson. They also reference Godzilla's comic in this appearance,
though not by name.

Ultimate 

Dugan appears in Ultimate X-Men several times, once at the end of the
Blockbuster storyline, then again, during New Mutants, and
one more time as a hologram at the beginning of the Magnetic North
story arc. Here, Dugan is scarred and aging but physically fit, and is
S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Director of Mutant Operations. He has a mysterious
connection to Wolverine, even remembering Logan's real name while
Wolverine himself couldn't recall it. Also of note is that this
version of Dugan has never been seen with the mainstream version's
trademark derby hat. In the "Ultimate Origins" five-parter it is shown
that he was involved with Project: Rebirth, the project that made
Captain America, appearing as an already grown man in 1943, essentially
replacing Chester Phillips in Mainstream continuity. Thanks to a
runaway mutant, Dugan and Nick Fury led a strike team at the Weapon X
facility, but not before killing Malcolm Colcord on the true origins
behind mutants, and rescuing T'Challa Udaku.


In other media

Television

-   Dum Dum Dugan has a non-speaking cameo appearance at the end of the
    X-Men episode "Old Soldiers".
-   Dum Dum Dugan appears in the 1990s Iron Man animated series,
    voiced by W. Morgan Sheppard. This version is active in the
    modern era.
-   Gary Chalk portrays the character (referred to solely as
    Timothy Dugan) in the 1998 live-action TV movie Nick Fury: Agent of
    Shield.
-   Dum Dum Dugan appears in The Super Hero Squad Show episode "Wrath
    of the Red Skull". He was seen in a flashback with Gabe Jones and
    Izzy Cohen.
-   Dum Dum Dugan appears in The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes
    episodes "Meet Captain America" and "The Fall of Asgard", voiced by
    John DiMaggio.
-   Neal McDonough reprised his role in the season 2 premiere of Agents
    of S.H.I.E.L.D._ titled "Shadows". He was present with Peggy
    Carter and the SSR when they raided a HYDRA base and arrested Daniel
    Whitehall and the HYDRA Agents with him.
-   McDonough reprised his role in the season 1 Agent Carter episode
    "The Iron Ceiling". He and the Howling Commandos assist
    Peggy Carter and Jack Thompson in raiding a Russian facility that
    had ties to Leviathan. Dugan was also brought up to speed about
    Howard Stark being framed for selling deadly weapons by Leviathan.

Film

[Neal McDonough as Dum Dum Dugan in the 2011 film Captain America: The
First Avenger.]

-   Neal McDonough plays Dum Dum Dugan in the 2011  Studios film
    Captain America: The First Avenger. He is part of a squad that
    destroys multiple enemy fortresses.
-   McDonough reprises his role in the  One-Shot short film Agent
    Carter.

Video games

-   Dugan administers medical aid to Nick Fury with the help of Kathleen
    Neville in the continue screen of the 1993 Punisher arcade
    game.
-   Dum Dum Dugan appears as a non-playable hero in the video game
    : Ultimate Alliance voiced by Scott MacDonald.
-   Dum Dum Dugan appears as a member of the S.H.I.E.L.D. team that
    confronts the Punisher in the final cutscene of the 2009 PlayStation
    Network game The Punisher: No Mercy.
-   Dum Dum Dugan appears in Captain America: Super Soldier, voiced by
    Neal McDonough.
-   Dum Dum Dugan appears in  Heroes, voiced by Michael
    Benyaer..
-   Dum Dum Dugan will appear in Lego 's Avengers.

