DUST (real name SOORAYA QADIR), is a fictional character, a
superheroine appearing in American comic books published by 
Comics. The character usually appears in X-Men-related comic books. She
was created by author Grant Morrison and artist Ethan Van Sciver in New
X-Men #133 (December 2002), although her character was not fully
developed until the New X-Men: Academy X series written by Christina
Weir and Nunzio DeFilippis. Sooraya is a mutant with the ability to
transform her body into a malleable cloud of dust. The X-Men travel to
Afghanistan to rescue Sooraya, whose abilities have made her the target
of slavers.

Born in Afghanistan, Sooraya is attacked by a slave trader attempting to
remove her traditional niqāb; almost instinctively, she lashes out with
her powers and flays him alive with her sand-like dust. The X-Men,
hearing of the situation, travel to Afghanistan and rescue her, where
she is brought to the USA and becomes a student of the Xavier Institute
for Higher Learning. After the actions of the Scarlet Witch (in which
millions of mutants lost their powers), Sooraya remains one of the few
mutants to keep their powers. She is currently a member of the Young
X-Men team. She is a rare example of a Muslim comic book character who
is portrayed in positive light.


Fictional character biography

Origin

Dust is an adolescent Sunni Muslim girl who possesses the mutant power
to turn herself into a sand-like substance. Born in Afghanistan, Sooraya
is kidnapped by a slave-trading ring after she is separated from her
mother. While one of her slavers tries to remove her niqāb, she
instinctively lashes out with her powers and flays them all alive with
her dust form before passing out. She is subsequently discovered and
rescued by Wolverine and Fantomex. Wolverine takes her to the X-Corps
base in India. Sooraya hides herself from the X-Men stationed there by
turning into sand and spreading herself around the complex. Phoenix
senses Sooraya's presence and telepathically convinces her to reveal
herself to everyone present. Sooraya reforms and announces her presence
by speaking a single word: Turaab (Arabic for dust/sand).

Xavier Institute

Ultimately, Dust is enrolled at the Xavier Institute in Westchester
County, New York. Quiet and nervous, she experiences difficulty adapting
to her new surroundings - particularly after being given the loud and
rebellious Noriko as a roommate. Sooraya and Noriko often come to
disagreements over the traditional garb which Noriko believes to be an
affront to women's rights. Sooraya is initially placed into Xorn's
Special Class and is picked on by Xorn for standing by her faith and
allegedly placing its importance over the cause of mutants. Frightened,
she then alerts Professor X to Xorn's 'true' identity. She attempts to
use her powers to do so, but Xorn manages to defeat her and Xavier.

Hellions Squad

After the conclusion of New X-Men where leadership of the school goes to
Emma Frost and Cyclops, Sooraya is made a member of the Hellions
training squad. She opts to observe Islamic hijab rather than wear a
standard training costume, though it does bear the standard 'X'
insignia. She forges a friendship with Icarus. He asks her to the
school dance, but she declines since the idea of the dance made her
uncomfortable, though she did not feel insulted by his asking nor did
Icarus feel insulted due to her rejection.

After winning the field day competition with the rest of the Hellions
and the academic year ended, Hellion (Julian Keller) had invited the
Hellion Squad to his home in Los Angeles for summer vacation. While
there, the Hellion Squad meets the Kingmaker, a powerful criminal with
the power to make "dreams come true" through favors and connections, but
for whom favors are expected in return. When each of the Hellions agree
to the deal, Sooraya's wish was to find her mother. The Kingmaker finds
Sooraya's mother and arranges for a trip back to Afghanistan so that
Sooraya can meet up with her. She is soon flown back to L.A. to deliver
on her part of the deal; stealing an advanced bio-weapon, which they
learn later will be sold to Doctor Octopus in New York. The Hellion
Squad breaks their deal with the Kingmaker and end up destroying the
weapon. As a result, Sooraya loses her connection to her mother as she
learns she has been moved again with no hope of tracking her, leaving
her devastated.

Decimation

After House of M, Wanda Maximoff depowered over 90% of the mutant
population, thereby reducing the population of Xavier's student body to
only 27 students (including Dust). The squad system has been dissolved,
and the remaining students have been merged into one large group. She
is also paired as roommates with X-23.

Sooraya becomes a target of William Stryker's crusade against the Xavier
Institute, as he expresses his need to "eliminate the Muslim."
Icarus gives her a note, which X-23 tells Sooraya not to trust, as
Icarus "smells like death". In reality, Stryker wishes to eliminate her
because Nimrod has a vision of an altered future in its memory banks
which shows Dust defeating all the Purifiers during their planned future
attack on the school. Wallflower was previously killed by the Purifiers
because of Nimrod's portrayal of her ability to turn the tide of the
fight with her pheromones. Upon entering the church of Reverend Stryker,
she is shown being shot down, though it is later revealed to be X-23
wearing one of Sooraya's niqābs. Learning the Purifier's true intentions
and that he was tricked into leading "Sooraya" to her death, Icarus is
killed by Stryker. When Stryker's team infiltrates the school, Dust
awakens in the bathroom, having been knocked out by X-23. She enters the
fight and surprises Stryker, singlehandedly defeating most of his
Purifiers and severely wounding Stryker's follower, Matthew Risman.

She, with the help of the rest of the New X-Men, later defeat Nimrod,
Stryker's backup plan for destroying the mutants.

The Institute holds a memorial for the mutants lost during M-Day;
Sooraya cries with Icarus' mother when she comes to the Institute and
apologizes for not being able to do more to save her son. His mother
tells her that Icarus thought she was a beautiful person.

Mercury Falling

While Hellion and X-23 go off to rescue Mercury from the Facility,
Sooraya is left at the mansion but learns vital information from Pixie
of what happened. Sooraya immediately tells Nori and David Alleyne what
she knows; Dust and the remaining team are about to leave the Institute,
but are stopped by Shadowcat, who brings them in for the time being to
tell them about the whereabouts of their teammates and friends.

The "Astonishing" team and the remaining X-Men, accompanied by the
O*N*E* Sentinel, go off to the Facility and rescue Hellion, X-23, and
Mercury.

Quest for Magik

Dust is shown praying to God before being teleported with the other
students to Limbo where she is held captive by Belasco and his demons.
X-23 breaks free and urges Dust and Mercury to join her in fighting
Belasco. Dust is too afraid of Belasco, believing him to be the Devil,
but when X-23 is seemingly killed, Dust breaks free and attacks Belasco,
saying that if she is to die in battle against "the Devil", she would
make Allah proud. Dust and Mercury fight with Belasco and manage to hold
their own due to the fact that their transient forms give them limited
resistance to Belasco's magic. When Surge and Hellion arrive, the two
girls are exhausted and can only watch as Belasco tries to pull Earth
into Limbo. He fends off every student of the Xavier Institute until he
is slain by Pixie and the Darkchild.

World War Hulk

Dust is part of the New X-Men in a training session supervised by Beast
that goes up against the Hulk when he comes to the mansion. She attacks
him in her sand form after he defeats Hellion, but she too is defeated
when Hulk pulls a water pipe up from the ground and sprays water at her,
taking her out of the fight.

She is also quizzed by Pixie about her beliefs and choice of dress and
has her shoulder fixed by Beast after it is dislocated during the fight
with Belasco. She also checks on Julian at the urging of Mercury, after
Nori kisses him.

Messiah Complex

Regrouping after their failed attack under the leadership of Matthew
Risman, the Purifiers are keeping track of the escaped Predator X.
Horribly scarred by Dust's attack, Matthew is fixated on training
Predator X to seek out and kill Sooraya by using abayas and niqabs
bearing some recognizable quality of hers (possibly her scent). While
being trained to seek out and kill Dust, Predator X senses the mutant it
was originally created to destroy (the unknown mutant featured in
X-Men: Messiah Complex) and the Purifiers follow. Sooraya neglects to
join her teammates in raiding the Purifier's most important base in D.C.
merely because she thinks that her squad leader, Surge, is out for
vengeance and that she is only ambushing the Purifiers for the baby as
an afterthought. She stays at the mansion alongside Elixir and David and
the remainder of the student body while the other New X-Men and the
X-Man, Armor, leave.

Later, the mansion's Megatron Sentinel guard are taken over completely
by nanosentinel technology, causing them to battle the X-Men. As
Hepzibah, Warpath, Bishop, and the student Nezhno fight the Sentinels,
Dust appears and Cyclops orders her to enter the Sentinels to find out
what is going on and stop it if she can. She does, but she runs into the
pilots who have been turned into updated versions of Prime Sentinels and
they repel her. Dust frantically runs to Cyclops as infantry arrives in
the form of Iceman and X-23. They manage to severely damage the
human-Sentinel hybrids.

When the New X-Men are home alone with Beast, she, Mercury, and
Rockslide go to put flowers on the graves of their deceased friends only
to find Predator X eating the corpses. The three New X-Men battle
with Predator X until Surge arrives, taking the beast on by herself, as
the other three warn the others. After an intense battle across the
remains of the school, Pixie teleports Predator X, herself, Dust, and
the rest to the X-Men's final battle against the Marauders on Muir
Island.

On Muir Island, Dust is crucial in the success of the battle against the
Marauders. She helps take out the massively powerful and dangerous
Exodus, by entering his body in her sand form and lacerating his lungs
while he was distracted by Emma Frost.

Secret Invasion

Dust is among the several X-Men helping to fight off Skrulls during
their invasion of San Francisco. She teams with Pixie and used her
sandform alongside Pixie's teleportation to strategically provide cloud
cover and evacuation for various other X-Men engaging in battle. She
also pairs with Mercury, Pixie and the members of X-Force in a decoy
attempt at capturing a Skrull.

Young X-Men

Sometime after Cyclops disbanded the institute, Sooraya had returned to
Afghanistan. Sooraya is seen driving a group of Taliban guerillas from a
small town and declaring the town to be under her protection, with the
Taliban thinking she is some sort of extension of Allah's wrath. Shortly
afterwards, Cyclops appears, asking her to return to New York to join
his new team of Young X-Men.

Unaware that "Cyclops" was actually Donald Pierce in disguise, the Young
X-Men proceed with their first mission to take down a new Brotherhood of
Mutants supposedly composed of the original New Mutants. In the ensuing
battle against Magma, a blast of flame turns Dust's sand form into
glass. Sooraya's glass form is later shattered into hundreds of glass
fragments in a battle between Donald Pierce and Graymalkin. However,
Magma used her powers to return the glass back into sand and Sooraya is
able to revert to human form. Realizing that they were used by Pierce,
the Young X-Men and former New Mutants defeat Pierce, albeit with the
death of Wolf Cub, and Sooraya joins the real X-Men in San
Francisco.

During a conversation with the now-incarcerated Pierce, Sooraya revealed
to him that she is dying. It is later revealed during a
confrontation with the Y-Men that part of her arm appears to still be
locked in glass form. Her condition is worsening, as more of her
body turns to glass. Beast conducts tests and confirms her prognosis,
giving her less than a week to live. She demands that this be kept a
secret, despite Beast's offer to find a way to save her. She later has a
final conversation with Donald Pierce who offers to save her in return
for his release, stating that he has since grown to appreciate Sooraya
and their conversations. However when the X-Men try to stop them, during
the confrontation Dust is found by Danielle Moonstar, dead. Her body
is then prepared for burial, though Ink intends to use his untested
Phoenix Force tattoo to revive her. It succeeds, and Dust is revived,
though the strain leaves Ink catatonic. Dust happily rejoins her
teammates and her revival convinces the Young X-Men not to disband.

Necrosha

Dust is seen with Emma and Mercury, and then is shown fighting Wither.
When Onyxx is killed by Kevin, she is shown mourning him.

Second Coming

Dust is seen as part of the second team defending the Golden Gate Bridge
from Nimrod Sentinels from the future. She along with Magma, Rockslide,
Namor and Colossus attempt to hold the Nimrod position and prevent them
from reaching Utopia.

Curse of the Mutants

Due to her silicon based sand form, Dust is assigned to a "Tough Skin"
team of X-Men to defend Utopia against a vampire invasion force.

Post Schism

Initial solicits for the post-Schism X-Men split showed Dust siding with
the majority of younger X-Men and moving to Westchester as part of
Wolverine's team. She was seen on the blackbird ready to leave, and was
seen walking away on the side of Wolverine in the ‘cave-man metaphor’
sequence in the X-Men Regenesis one-shot. However, as of the release of
Wolverine & the X-Men #1 Dust is nowhere to be seen and does not appear
on the roster. With the release of Uncanny X-Men #1, Dust is shown still
residing in Utopia and a part of the San Francisco street team under
Dazzler. Dust is also seen among her fellow students in a class session
in X-Men Legacy 260.1. Dust appears again as part of the Recruits in
X-Men Legacy #262 on Cyclops' team, who came to aid Wolverine's Team
against Exodus (Bennet du Paris), alongside Surge and Generation Hope.
It is explained in X-Men: Legacy #263 that Dust originally went to
Westchester, but changed her mind and returned to Utopia before the
events of Uncanny X-Men #1.


Powers and abilities

[Dust uses her powers] Dust can transform herself into an explosive
cloud of sand-like silicon particles and maintain control of her sand
form. She can reform her normal body at will or maintain an aerial based
sand form in the shape of her human body. Her sandstorm form is
resistant to most forms of injury. The form makes her hard to detect
telepathically, according to Jean Grey and Professor X, and according to
New X-Men vol. 2 #42, resistant to magic. She can use the form to
attack, for instance, scouring the flesh from her enemies' bones like a
sandstorm as well as enter people's lungs and scouring them from the
inside.

Telekinetic beings can take control of her sand particles. Dust has also
demonstrated a major weakness to water. Her sand form has been stopped
by being doused with water several times in combat. She can also be
defeated if the air she travels through is manipulated (such as during
her fight with Wind Dancer). Her sand form is also vulnerable to
extremes of heat, causing it to crystallise into glass, paralysing her.
Like many transmorphs, she reverts to her human form if exhausted or
knocked unconscious.


Family

Sooraya is still searching in hopes of being reunited with her mother,
Mirah Qadir. Currently, Emma Frost has been trying to locate Mirah, but
to no avail.


Observing Islamic Hijab

In line with Sooraya's character as a traditional Muslim, she chooses to
observe Islamic hijab by donning traditional dress. Sooraya explains to
her mother that she always observes hijab because of the modesty it
affords her from men, and never did it because of the Taliban's
enforcement of hijab on women. Her mother is happy that she lives
somewhere where she is able to make those choices, unlike in
Afghanistan. Characters in the comics often refer to Dust's
traditional Muslim outfit as a burqa. However, the outfit Dust wears is
an abaya with a niqāb for her face, an ensemble originating in and worn
mostly by Muslim women in the Persian Gulf states of the Middle East. In
New X-Men vol. 2 #42, Gentle is the first to get it right while
correcting fellow student Pixie.

Some artists depict Sooraya's abaya incorrectly, having it tightly
cinched around her body, which disregards the purpose of wearing an
abaya.


Other versions

Although Dust is a character in the main  Universe continuity
(also called "Earth-616,"), she has also been depicted in other
fictional universes and alternate futures.

House of M

Sooraya appears as a member of the New Mutants in the House of M
continuity. She appears to have formed a very close friendship with
Jubilee and become Westernized, wearing revealing clothes and enjoying
stereotypical 'mall rat' activities, although it is revealed that she
may carry some reservations and resentments for trading in on her morals
and beliefs for her Western behavior. Like the rest of the Hellions and
New Mutants, she travels to Japan to fight against Emperor Sunfire in
order to close down Project Genesis.

X-Men: The End

In the alternate time line depicted in X-Men: The End, Sooraya remains
at the institute as the caretaker of Cyclops and Emma Frost's children.
During the attack on the Institute, Sooraya encounters Madelyne Pryor,
asking if she is Jean Grey returning to the school. Madelyne lashes out
and Sooraya defends herself, seemingly defeating Madelyne and escaping
the Institute before it explodes. It is later revealed that the "Dust"
who escaped the encounter was really Madelyne, disguised in Sooraya's
abaya. Upon revealing her true identity, Cyclops states that he already
knew it was her and that the real Sooraya died back at the school.

Young X-Men "End of Days"

In a dystopic future depicted in the final two issues of "Young X-Men,"
Sooraya appears before the last remaining mutants on the once mutant
safe-haven and independent state of "Xaviera." She easily kills
Wolverine and kills Graymalkin and Emma Frost. Before killing him,
Sooraya explains to Anole that she is doing this because mutants are a
"plague" upon the world and that she has become its cure, "a storm that
wipes clean the earth." She reaches a now decrepit Ink, who has a brief
conversation with her regarding her revival in the past. They both
discuss that his actions corrupted her, "killing" her soul and she
reveals that she still harbors resentment over "mutants" allowing her to
die in the first place. She states that she is sorry, as she knows his
actions were good at heart, and kills him.

In this future depiction, Sooraya no longer observes Islamic hijab,
wearing a tight outfit exposing her face and her cleavage. Her eyes glow
red and she has combustive powers in addition to her original
abilities.


In other media

Television

Dust first appears in the Wolverine and the X-Men episode "Hindsight"
Pt. 1 voiced by Tara Strong. She first appears as a captive of the MRD.
She and others are freed by Wolverine and Dust uses her mutant abilities
to take out some MRD jets. Dust also appears in "Greetings from
Genosha" where she informs Nightcrawler about Magneto's underground
cells. She also ends up in Magneto's underground cells as a prisoner.

Novels

In the X-Men: The Last Stand novel by Chris Claremont, Sooraya is
mentioned by Rogue.

Film

Dust makes a brief cameo in X-Men Origins: Wolverine as one of the
imprisoned mutants at William Stryker's facility.

Video Games

Dust makes a brief cameo in Deadpool's ending in  vs. Capcom 3:
Fate of Two Worlds.

