ELIXIR (JOSHUA "JOSH" FOLEY), is a fictional mutant appearing in
American comic books published by . The character is
usually depicted as a student at the Xavier Institute.


Publication history

He first appeared in New Mutants vol. 2 #5 and was created by Nunzio
DeFilippis, Christina Weir, and Keron Grant


Fictional character biography

Josh Foley's powers first manifest during his time as a member of the
anti-mutant group the Reavers. His powers initially go unnoticed by the
other Reavers, and he uses them to save fellow mutant Laurie Collins.
Outed as a mutant, and thrown out of his house by his parents, Josh
reluctantly joins the Xavier Institute for Higher Learning and becomes
Prodigy's roommate. His parents sign legal guardianship over to Dani
Moonstar.

A depowered Rahne Sinclair visits the X-Mansion. Josh is instantly
smitten by the new "wild child" Rahne, and sneaks out of the
Institute at night to go to a bar where Rahne is playing pool. A
connection is established between them as Josh shows an immediate
understanding of her inner struggle. As the two kiss, Josh unconsciously
restores Rahne's powers. She loses control and mortally wounds Josh.
Laurie witnesses the attack and uses her pheromone powers to drive away
Rahne. While he is rushed to the mansion's infirmary, Beast reveals
the full potential of Josh's power: he can manipulate all the body's
functions on a genetic level, and the fact that Josh only heals is
simply inexperience. With Archangel, the mansion's other healer, absent,
the residents resort to electrically shocking Josh awake so that he can
heal himself. As an unexpected side effect, Josh turns his skin and hair
to a reflective gold color. He is assigned to Dani's New Mutant squad
and given the codename Elixir.

Rahne attempts to end her relationship with Josh after she becomes a
teacher at the school, but Josh is persistent and they continue to see
each other secretly. However, when Rahne witnesses him on a date with
Laurie, she ends the relationship. Josh is depressed at first, but
eventually realizes that it was for the best and pursues a relationship
with Laurie. However, Wither also has a crush on Laurie, and reveals
Rahne's and Josh's previous relationship to the school.

Most of the New Mutants team ostracize Elixir for his involvement with a
teacher. Eventually, the New Mutants squad's in-fighting begins to
affect their ability to act as a team. Concerned with the future of her
team, Wind Dancer convinces everyone to get together for a camp-out so
they can work through their issues with one another. The evening ends
with Josh speaking candidly with Icarus about his disappointment over
his own actions. The other members of the team overhear and he is
reconciled with David and Laurie.

Decimation and Childhood's End

[Elixir kills Stryker] The events of House of M leaves only 27 students
with their powers, including Josh. Fearing their safety, Emma Frost
orders the depowered students and staff, including Josh's guardian
Danielle Moonstar, to leave the Institute. A bus full of depowered
students is bombed by anti-mutant zealot Reverend William Stryker,
killing all on board. Josh is unable to heal his dying classmates in
time, and becomes severely depressed and loses confidence in his
abilities. Most of the remaining students take part in a melee fight
organized by Emma Frost to determine who will be members in the new
group of mutant heroes in-training, the New X-Men. Despite his
non-combat powers, Josh makes the team.

Caught up in his emotions over the deceased students, Josh hits a
powered-down Colossus over the head with a metal beam during a training
session. Furious, Emma temporarily kicks him off the team. Afterwards,
Laurie is killed by a bullet fired by one of Stryker's agents.
Enraged over the death of Laurie, Josh uses his power to kill Stryker.
This turns Josh's golden skin into metallic black and leaves him
catatonic.

When X-23 is mortally wounded and unable to heal during the final battle
with Nimrod, Hellion rushes her back to the Institute with help from
Emma Frost, who unlocks the part of his brain which controls his powers.
Julian gives a motivational speech and gets Josh to move forward with
his life. Josh heals Laura, which also turns his skin back from black to
gold. Shortly after it is discovered that a small part of black
still remains on Josh's skin, moving from place to place. Josh states he
could still kill but he will need to learn how to control his powers and
use them only to heal. He approaches Beast and asks him to teach him
everything there is to know about human anatomy, physiology, and
biology.

[Right|250px|Elixir gains Beast's advanced expertise in human biology
from the Stepford Cuckoos.] Before the other students are teleported to
Limbo, the Stepford Cuckoos help Elixir learn advanced science by taking
information from the Beast's head and putting it into Josh's. This
increases his power exponentially, allowing him to heal otherwise-fatal
injures with a touch. He also masters his "black abilities" by being
able to switch instantly from golden/healing to
black/disease-causing. He begins a romantic relationship with
Loa.

X-Force

Due to Elixir being a "problem" to X-Force, X-23 contacts the Stepford
Cuckoos to help Rahne and erase Elixir's memories of the team, by Josh's
request. However, before his memories can be erased, X-Force is
interrupted and sent on a mission. Elixir joins X-Force and receives a
dark-colored uniform. He helps his new team capture Vanisher, creating a
deadly brain tumor on his brain. Elixir later keeps X-23 from killing
herself after she becomes infected with the Legacy Virus, and helps her
get rid of it.

Elixir is transported to the future, along with the rest of X-Force, by
Cyclops in order to bring Cable and the mutant child back to the
present. Once they arrive there Elixir is in a hysterical state over
being unable to save his friends from the Leper Queen. When Vanisher is
wounded by Deadpool, Josh heals him and later is led to Cable and Hope
Summers. During his stay in the future, Vanisher constantly tries to
get Elixir to undo his tumor only to be turned down.

Upon arriving in the present, Josh cures Nori and Julian but falls into
a coma as a result of the strain. He is later sought out by Hrimhari
when Wolfsbane collapses after a battle with the Frost Giants. Upon
arriving on Utopia, Hrimhari makes a deal with the Norse goddess of
death, Hela, when he finds out Rahne is pregnant. Unable to choose
between his lover or his child to save, Hrimhari requests Hela heal Josh
so that he can save Wolfsbane and their child. Elixir heals her by
transferring some of her baby's strength to her to ensure that she can
survive the pregnancy. He and X-Force teleport off to Genosha and once
there he informs Vanisher that it's not the tumor making him sick as he
removed it in their trip to the future but his stage 4 Syphilis.

Elixir faces off against Wither in a fight to the death. Elixir shifts
to his black form, then reverses the effects of Wither's powers, telling
Kevin he is sorry before turning him to dust. In the aftermath of
Necrosha, Wolverine states that Josh has quit the team, citing he is
having difficulty shifting out of his black form.

Wolverine Legacy

In the aftermath of the Death of Wolverine storyline, Elixir was
captured by the same individuals that had captured X-23, Sabretooth,
Daken, Lady Deathstrike and Mystique. As he was still stuck in his black
form, he was unable to attempt to rouse Mystique after Sharp knocked her
unconscious with the trigger words, however this proved to be
unnecessary as Mystique had already recovered and was just feigning
unconsciousness. When Siphon attacked the group shortly after, Elixir
tried to use his killing powers to stop him, however these had no effect
and Josh was quickly overwhelmed. X-23 insisted that they needed to
help, but Sabretooth refused and demanded Sharp release them. Sharp, his
team, and the captives then scattered to escape.

Utopians

Elixir later appears as a member of the Utopians alongside Karma,
Madison Jeffries, Masque, Random, and Tabitha Smith.

Death

Elixir later resurfaces, having joined a church group to help find
himself, when he's tracked down by Sabretooth and M who felt he might be
targeted by someone killing mutant healers. While there, the group is
attacked by the Dark Riders, and most of the church volunteers are
slaughtered. While M and Sabretooth are busy fighting the Riders, Josh
begins healing the volunteers en masse, but it was a trap to lure him
out and he is shot and killed by Gauntlet.


Powers and abilities

Elixir is an Omega-level mutant, capable of controlling the biological
structure of any organic matter including his own body. He must be
in proximity to whomever he uses his power on. Besides healing, he is
capable of boosting and restoring mutant abilities, causing painful
boils and welts to appear, curing the Legacy Virus, and cleansing
the body of drugs. When channeling his powers in harmful ways,
Elixir's skin turns from its usual gold, to metallic black.

The Stepford Cuckoos telepathically copied and transferred the Beast's
knowledge of anatomy, biology, and genetics into Josh's mind, allowing
him the knowledge to heal virtually any malady.

Because of his control over his own biology, Elixir has proven to be
very difficult to treat medically. He usually passes out after
pushing his powers too far and remains in a coma for some time.


Other versions

New X-Men: Too Much Information

When David learns of a mental block within his head that prevents him
from keeping the information he absorbs permanently, he asks for Emma
Frost's aid in removing it. Working with Dani Moonstar, they show David
a possible future outcome because of the mental blocks' removal. After
leaving the Xavier Institute, David promises to help Josh find the full
potential of his powers. Months later after establishing his own
business, Josh is used as a test subject to cure cancer and AIDS.
Although it's successful, it comes at the cost of his life.

House of M

In the House of M reality, Josh was an agent of S.H.I.E.L.D., serving
alongside Agent Kevin Ford (Wither) as interrogator. Foley and Ford were
in charge of "persuading" Cameron Hodge, a member of the Human
Liberation Front, to reveal the location of his terrorist cell. Josh
uses his power to "speed up the body's biological functions," and
combined with Agent Ford's power, they are able to create a net effect
that causes a part of the terrorist to die and then regenerate, which
Foley describes as "quite painful". Before Ford and Foley begin
torturing Hodge, Agent Noriko Ashida (Surge) interrupts them, prompting
Ford and Foley to attack her. She incapacitates them both but Foley
manages to use his power to rupture her blood vessels and cause her
lungs to fill with blood.


In popular culture

-   Elixir is referenced in the MC chris song, "Nrrrd Grrrl": "She's
    more like a wallflower, Like the one that Stryker sniped, I'm like
    Elixir when I'm with her, 'Cause I think I like her type."

