ELSA BLOODSTONE is a fictional character appearing in American comic
books published by . She first appears in 's
Bloodstone mini-series of 2001 written by Dan Abnett and Andy Lanning.
She is the daughter of the previously established  Universe
character Ulysses Bloodstone and the sister of Cullen Bloodstone.

As she is a young, female monster-hunter there are potential
similarities with Buffy the Vampire Slayer, although when asked about
this the authors said "neither of us have seen an episode of Buffy all
the way through! I know we're missing out on some great TV but we've
determined to steer clear of Buffy at least while we're doing
Bloodstone."


Publication history

Elsa appeared as the lead character in the Bloodstone mini-series and
has been mentioned in the aftermath of the Civil War.

In August 2013, Elsa joined a team of Super heroines known as the
Fearless Defenders. At the time of her joining, the roster consisted of
Valkyrie, Misty Knight, Annabelle Riggs, Warrior Woman, Danielle
Moonstar and Clea.

Other versions of her have appeared in  Zombies vs. The Army of
Darkness and as a team member in the Nextwave series.


Fictional character biography

Bloodstone

Elsa lives in Bloodstone Manor with her mother and ally Adam the
Frankenstein Monster. She has befriended Charles Barnabus, a pureblood
vampire lawyer and executor of the Bloodstone estate. Together along
with Dracula they defeat Nosferatu and his scourge of vampires.

 Monsters

Pursuing a monster-hunting occupation, she begins an online blog to
create an electronic encyclopedic reference guide for the numerous
monsters and alien beasts in the  Universe (published by  as
 Monsters: From the Files of Ulysses Bloodstone and the Monster
Hunters). thumb|Elsa Bloodstone from Bloodstone #1, art by Michael
Lopez.

Nextwave

Elsa Bloodstone has also appeared in Nextwave, but the series'
connection to the  Universe is unclear - it was initially
out-of-continuity and was later implied to be the adventures of
tourists from Earth-A. However Civil War: Damage Report suggest
that at least parts of the adventures of the team were set in the main
continuity: the others may have been delusions brought by constant use
of drugs, mental conditioning and deceptions by their H.A.T.E.
employers. Her delusional state could also account for her "memories" of
being routinely subjected to abusive monster-hunting training by her
father, like being left alone in childhood with a robotical nanny
programmed to torture her whenever she wasn't able to reply to a
question regarding monsters, or being forced by her father to kill
monsters, as a toddler, armed with simple cutlery.

The character elected to suspend her college studies upon being
recruited by Dirk Anger of H.A.T.E. to fight Unusual Weapons of Mass
Destruction (UWMD) alongside Monica Rambeau, Tabitha Smith, Aaron Stack,
and The Captain. Shortly after this recruiting Elsa and her teammates
found H.A.T.E. to be funded by the Beyond Corporation©, which is in fact
a terrorist organization. Using the stolen Marketing Plan of Beyond,
the Nextwave squad traveled across the country destroying hidden UWMDs
which included Fin Fang Foom, Mindless Ones, and Forbush
Man.

She suffers constant abuses by her teammembers, like being confronted by
Tabitha Smith about her European origins and accent (referred even in
the Nextwave Theme Song as her main characteristic), and constantly
ogled by Aaron Stack, attracted by her large chest.

The Initiative and Beyond

Recently Elsa joined up as part of Iron Man and the government's Fifty
State Initiative. Elsa has been identified as one of the 142 registered
superheroes who appear to have signed the Superhuman Registration Act
and become part of the Initiative. She later returns to her
monster-hunting adventures: still with her brasher mind-set, seen in her
Nextwave days, she vows solemnly to never have children on her own,
since she feels the responsibility of being a Bloodstone too heavy to be
forced on another living being. Instead, she chooses to end her legacy
once and for all, completing the task of freeing humanity from monsters
before dying.

As part of the  NOW!_ event, Elsa Bloodstone is shown as one of
the teachers at the Braddock Academy (the British equivalent of the
Avengers Academy), where she takes her brother Cullen Bloodstone to
attend.

Elsa Bloodstone is later recruited to join the Fearless Defenders.

Elsa later appears in the pages of Avengers Undercover where she
visits Cullen and argues with him in the S.H.I.E.L.D. detention center
after Hazmat killed Arcade.

During the AXIS storyline, Elsa Bloodstone is among the heroes
recruited by an inverted Doctor Doom to join his team of Avengers.


Powers, abilities and equipment

Elsa has exhibited superhuman strength, speed, durability and endurance,
and a regenerative ability. She appears to possess all of the abilities
her father once had. In addition, she has demonstrated immunity to
vampire bites (her blood will kill a vampire if consumed and the
original Bloodgem fragment itself is anathema to vampires).

In the Bloodstone series, Elsa claimed that she had inherited at least
some of the Bloodgem power genetically, but it has also been shown that
her powers of strength and invulnerability were bestowed upon her by the
Bloodgem fragment she wears on a choker, although she does not appear to
be wearing it in Nextwave #8 flashbacks to her childhood training
sessions. She has also been portrayed as an expert marksman.

She has been shown to use a removable Bloodgem on a choker as well as a
number of artifacts gathered by her father. These include a lamp which
contained a genie whom Ulysses had enslaved years ago. This serves as an
early warning system, lighting up during times of supernatural crisis,
and transporting him to said crisis. In Nextwave, she carries a guitar
case with a false cover, containing two Uzis and a rifle.


Other versions

Iron Man: Viva Las Vegas

In an archaeological expedition, Elsa and her team find the stone statue
of Fin Fang Foom. She sells this statue to Tony Stark for the
opening of his new casino only for the statue to release the actual
dragon himself from his stone tomb.

 Zombies

Elsa Bloodstone alongside the other members of Nextwave show up "in a
purely superfluous cameo" in the third issue of the  Zombies vs.
The Army of Darkness to save Ash from a zombified Power Pack, before
being "Ruthlessly dispatched off-panel in the most humiliating and
degrading ways imaginable" moments later.


In Other Media

-   Elsa Bloodstone is playable in : Future Fight.
-   Elsa Bloodstone is a playable character : Avengers Alliance.

