EQUINOX (TERRANCE SORENSON) is a fictional character, a supervillain
appearing in American comic books published by .


Publication history

Equinox, the Thermodynamic Man, first appeared in  Team-Up vol.
1 #23 (July, 1974), and was created by Len Wein and Gil Kane. He also
appeared in Giant-Size Spider-Man #1, also in July 1974, and a
two-part story in  Team-Up vol. 1 #59-60 (July–August 1977).

After a nearly twenty-year hiatus, the character subsequently appeared
sporadically, appearing in  Presents #147 (February
1994), Code of Honor #1 (January 1997), Spider-Man Unlimited #12
vol. 2 (January 2006), and Heroes for Hire vol. 2 #1 (October 2006). A
Skrull impersonator of Equinox appeared in Avengers: The Initiative
#12 (June 2008), and #18.

Equinox received an entry in the All-New Official Handbook of the
 Universe A-Z #4 (2006).


Fictional character biography

Equinox is an African-American youth who gained superhuman powers due to
accidental exposure to his father's malfunctioning equipment after a lab
accident. (His mother is Margay Sorenson, head of natural sciences at
Bard College.)

Equinox's powers were similar to the heroes the Human Torch and Iceman,
with whom he first battled. He also came into conflict with the
superheroes Spider-Man, Yellowjacket, and the Wasp, during which his
origin was revealed, the three heroes managing to apparently cure him
using technology conceived by his mother and constructed in the Baxter
Building while the Fantastic Four were away.

Years later, he fought the Falcon.

Afterwards, Equinox joined Vil-Anon, a twelve-step program dedicated to
helping individuals overcome their criminal tendencies.

Equinox appeared during the Civil War event and when the registration
law was announced, he wanted to leave the country again. He contacted
Vienna to make him a new fake identity, but he did not know Vienna was
secretly working for the Heroes for Hire, who later apprehended Equinox
and several other super villains.

Equinox is next seen as a member of the Montana team of the Fifty State
Initiative, Freedom Force, alongside Challenger, Cloud 9, Think Tank,
and Spinner.

During the Secret Invasion storyline, Equinox was revealed to be a
Skrull infiltrator and attacked his teammates. The Skrull-Equinox not
only had the abilities of Firestar and Iceman to match the real Equinox'
powers, he also had some of Spider-Man's abilities. He froze Hardball,
Ryder and Riot (of the Skrull Kill Krew) in ice and broke the glass over
Think Tank's brain. The Skrull-Equinox was sniped in the head by Cloud 9
using adamantium bullets.

After the invasion is over, the real Equinox is seen, although
miscolored, in a support group meeting with the others that had been
replaced by Skrulls. Equinox has since retaken active service with
the Freedom Force. Due to his criminal past, Norman Osborn chooses his
team between the ones assembled by Stark to help some other Initiative
teams to apprehend the seceding Heavy Hitters team.

At the start of the Ends of the Earth storyline, Equinox was seen on a
rampage. Spider-Man uses his own version of Green Goblin's glider and
bombs to defeat Equinox.

Following the Avengers vs. X-Men storyline, Equinox was seen taking
part in a prison riot. Mimic and Rogue were the only ones to respond to
the riot. Copying the powers of Equinox, Armadillo, and Man-Bull, Mimic
and Rogue were able to stop the riot.

Equinox returns in the All-New, All-Different  when he is
brainwashed by Kang the Conqueror's splintered half Mister Gryphon to
attack the Avengers. Mister Gryphon creates multiple temporal replicas
of Equinox by having his future selves aid him in his assault.
However, he is defeated when Spider-Man pretends to have fallen under
Kang's influence, allowing him to identify the earliest version of
Equinox present as the only one surprised at his conversion and then
knock him out, eliminating all the future Equinoxes as well.


Powers and abilities

Equinox possesses both pyrokinesis and cryokinesis as well as superhuman
strength and durability. He continually undergoes "thermal transitions"
so that part of his body is always aflame and part of his body is
covered with ice. The strain of these powers has driven him increasingly
insane over time.


In other media

Video games

-   Equinox appears in : Ultimate Alliance 2, voiced by Jimmie
    Wood. He is shown injected with a controlling nanite and unleashed
    upon the heroes when they infiltrate Prison 42.

