The FALCON (SAM WILSON) is a fictional superhero appearing in American
comic books published by . Created by writer-editor Stan
Lee and artist Gene Colan, and introduced in Captain America #117
(Sept. 1969), the character is mainstream comics' first African-American
superhero. Falcon uses mechanical wings to fly and has limited
telepathic and empathic control over birds. Following Steve Rogers'
retirement, Sam Wilson becomes the newest CAPTAIN AMERICA and leader of
the Avengers.

The Falcon's deceased nephew was the Incredible Hulk's sometime-sidekick
Jim Wilson, one of the first openly HIV-positive comic-book characters.
Jim Wilson's father Gideon Wilson would go on to join the Gamma Corps.
Gideon would presumably be Sam's older brother. Sam also has a sister
named Sarah Casper and a nephew, named Jody Toby Casper and an
unnamed niece.

Anthony Mackie portrays Falcon in the 2014  Studios film, Captain
America: The Winter Soldier and reprises his role in Avengers: Age of
Ultron (2015), Ant-Man (2015) and Captain America: Civil War
(2016).


Publication history

The Falcon, the first African-American superhero in mainstream comic
books, first appeared in Captain America #117 (Sept. 1969).
 had previously introduced Black Panther, a native of the
fictional African country Wakanda.

The Falcon followed the company's first African-American co-starring
character, the non-superpowered World War II soldier Gabe Jones, and
first regular supporting character, Joe Robertson of The Amazing
Spider-Man. The Falcon debuted nearly three years before Luke Cage,
's first African-American series star, and almost six years before
the African character Storm, the first black female, and also precedes
's British vampire hunter Blade, also created by Colan, by almost
four years. The Falcon is also the first superhero of African descent
not to have the word "black" as part of his superhero name, preceding
the John Stewart Green Lantern by over two years. The first
African-American starring character in comics is Dell Comics' Old West
gunfighter Lobo, introduced in 1965.

Created by writer-editor Stan Lee and artist Gene Colan, he came
about, Colan recalled in 2008,

He was introduced as an unnamed former resident of New York City's
Harlem neighborhood, who had adopted a wild falcon he trained and named
Redwing. (His own name, SAM WILSON, was not given until page five of the
following issue.) When a group of men on an island "in the tropics"
wanted a hunting falcon, Wilson answered the ad, only to discover that
the self-dubbed "Exiles" were former Nazis in league with the
supervillain the Red Skull. He escaped, but remained on the island to
organize the natives to confront the Exiles, who had turned them into
serfs. At the urging of Steve Rogers, whom he later learned was Captain
America, Wilson took on the costumed identity of the Falcon and
underwent training with Rogers in order to better inspire the villagers
and lead the fight.

Through most of the 1970s, the Falcon and Captain America were a team in
New York City, and the series was cover-billed Captain America and the
Falcon from issues #134–192 and 194–222 (February 1971 – June 1978),
though still copyrighted as Captain America._ In issue #186 (June
1975), writer Steve Englehart retconned aspects of the Falcon's past.
Originally depicted as a former social worker, motivated by a desire to
better the lives of inner-city youth, the Falcon was revealed as a
mob-connected thug whose memories were altered by the reality-warping
Cosmic Cube.

The Falcon briefly joined the superhero team the Defenders, appearing in
issues #62–64 (August–October1978), and was a member of the Avengers
from issues #183–194 (May 1979 – April 1980). He starred in his own
four-issue miniseries in 1983, written by Jim Owsley. Its first issue
was illustrated by Paul Smith with the final three issues by Mark
Bright. The series revealed that the Falcon was a mutant, although this
development was later retconned in the Avengers 2001 Annual.

After regularly appearing in Captain America vol. 2 (November 1996 –
November 1997), the Falcon rejoined the Avengers in The Avengers vol.
3, #1 (February 1998). This time, he remained with the team, becoming
one of its most prominent members by issue #57 (Oct. 2002).
Concurrently, he was also a supporting character in Captain America
vols. 3–4 (January 1998 – February 2002 and June 2002 – December 2004).
The Falcon next appeared in the short-lived Captain America and the
Falcon series, in 2004 and 2005. After the events of the storyline
"Avengers Disassembled", when the Scarlet Witch temporarily restored his
criminal personality, the Falcon became a supporting character in
Captain America vol. 5 (January 2005 – July 2009). The Falcon
continued to play a significant role in the series after it returned to
its original numbering, beginning with Captain America #600 (Aug.
2009).

Falcon was a member of the Avengers in the 2012  NOW!
relaunch.

On July 16, 2014  announced that The Falcon would become
the new Captain America. An ongoing series starring Sam Wilson as
Captain America launched in October 2015, as part of 's
post-Secret Wars relaunch, written by Nick Spencer and Daniel
Acuña.


Fictional character biography

Early life

Samuel Thomas Wilson was born in Harlem, New York City, to Paul Wilson,
a prominent minister, and Darlene Wilson. Wilson has a happy childhood
and finds he has a natural affinity for birds. He takes up training
pigeons, and has the largest pigeon coop in Harlem. In his teens,
however, encounters with racism leave him jaded. When he is 16,
Wilson refuses to join the church, believing his deeply religious
parents to be ignorant for their faith. To his surprise, rather than put
up a fight, his parents provide him with books on different religions
and comparative theology. The next night, however, Sam's father is
killed trying to break up a neighborhood fight (originally Paul was said
to have been killed when Sam was 9 years old). Two years later, his
mother is shot and killed by a mugger one block from their apartment.
Consumed by grief and "angry at the world" Sam turns his back on his
past as a respected community volunteer. He moves to Los Angeles and
creates a new persona: "Snap" Wilson, a professional criminal and gang
member.

While Snap is on his way to "a big score in Rio de Janeiro", his plane
crashes on Exile Island (years later, he would say "I actually loved
this place quite a bit. It's where I met my two best friends," referring
to Captain America and Redwing). The once-peaceful island had been
taken over by the Exiles, a group of would-be world conquerors who had
collaborated with the Nazi supervillain the Red Skull during World War
II. More recently, they had been betrayed by the Red Skull, and were
forced to remain in hiding on the island, enslaving the natives. Wilson
finds and befriends REDWING, a falcon with which he feels a remarkably
strong bond.

Becoming the Falcon

As part of a plot against Captain America, the Red Skull uses the Cosmic
Cube, a creation that allows its user to alter reality, to mentally fuse
Wilson with Redwing, creating a "super-normal mental link" that would,
with time and concentration, give Wilson broad powers over all
birds. Next, the Skull uses the Cube to rewrite the past and
erase the years Wilson had spent angrily living as Snap Wilson. In this
new history, Wilson was an upright and cheerful social worker who is
eventually lured to the Exiles' island and organizes the natives to
fight for their freedom. Steve Rogers (Captain America) befriends him
there and convinces Wilson to adopt a persona to inspire the natives in
their rebellion. The two create the costumed persona the Falcon, and
train together extensively before attacking and defeating the Exiles and
the Red Skull. The Falcon becomes Captain America's regular partner
in crime-fighting, and briefly even takes on the Captain America
costume and identity when Rogers is believed to have been killed.

Later, again as the Falcon, Wilson receives help from the Black Panther,
who creates a harness for Wilson, allowing him to fly. When Rogers
briefly abandons his Captain America identity, others attempt to take up
the mantle, including a young man named Roscoe whom the Falcon mentors.
When the Red Skull eventually kills Roscoe, Rogers again becomes Captain
America.

Soon afterwards, the Red Skull reveals the Falcon's true past as Snap
Wilson, and unsuccessfully attempts to use the Cosmic Cube to make the
Falcon kill Captain America. Now aware of his past but deciding to
continue as a hero, the Falcon is eventually named head of the Super
Agents at the espionage agency S.H.I.E.L.D..

US government superhero liaison Henry Peter Gyrich then recruits the
Falcon, one of the few active African-American superheroes, to fill a
mandated racial quota for the venerable team the Avengers. Resentful
of being a "token", the Falcon quits at the first opportunity. He debuts
a new costume when he fights the supervillain Taskmaster.

2000s

Falcon becomes a member of the new team of Avengers assembled to fight
the international menace Scorpio as a United Nations peacekeeping
agency. By this point, Falcon had discovered that he could extend his
telepathic bond with Redwing, allowing him to control other birds and
"see" through their eyes. He uses this ability to spy on Henry Gyrich
(now the Avengers' liaison with the United Nations) and discovers that
the United States' Secretary of Defense, Senator Dell Rusk, has been
pressuring Gyrich to spy on the Avengers and turn over their secrets.
Although initially hostile to one another, Falcon convinces Gyrich to
help the Avengers spy on Rusk, feeding him false information while
gathering evidence to expose him. They discover that Rusk is actually
the Red Skull, who has launched a biological weapon attack on America,
intending to use the ensuing panic to gain control over America's
government and start a war with other countries. Falcon is instrumental
in defeating the Red Skull.

It is around this period of time that, a new "Captain America" secretly
created by the Office of Naval Intelligence (O.N.I.) goes rogue and
begins eliminating anything and anyone he sees as a source of terrorism.
To draw out this agent (dubbed "The Anti-Cap"), O.N.I. leaks information
about their involvement in a biological weapons project with the
notorious Rivas Family, powerful Cuban drug lords. Reporter and social
activist Leila Taylor investigates this rumor and attempts to smuggle a
sample of the virus into America, but she is arrested by U.S. forces in
Cuba. Falcon, who is a friend of Taylor, breaks her out of prison and
investigates her claims, destroying the Rivas Family's biological
weapons lab and obtaining a sample of the mysterious virus they were
developing for O.N.I. Falcon is able to fly Leila back to America
(although his flying harness is destroyed in a hurricane) while Captain
America follows Falcon's directions and retrieves the virus sample. The
Anti-Cap kills the head of the Rivas family, and pursues Leila, Falcon,
and Cap, intent on obtaining the virus sample. After reuniting, Falcon
and Captain America are able to barely defeat the Anti-Cap. Realizing
that O.N.I.'s goal was to draw out their rogue agent to execute him,
Captain America arranges to have the Anti-Cap secretly imprisoned in the
Wakandan embassy until O.N.I. agrees not to kill him.

Since Captain America and Falcon now possess both O.N.I.'s rogue agent
and the last remaining sample of O.N.I.'s virus, O.N.I. begins to put
increasing amounts of pressure on the heroes. Falcon is especially
targeted - he had broken Leila out of Federal Custody, and his criminal
history makes it easier for O.N.I. to create further false charges
against him. Falcon soon finds himself on the run from O.N.I.

Meanwhile, the superheroine the Scarlet Witch, having gone insane,
begins using her powers to re-create many of the Avengers' greatest
trials and tragedies. She destabilizes the Falcon's mind, causing him to
act increasingly like his "Snap" persona. He begins carrying a gun,
keeps secrets from his friends, assaults Leila's boyfriend Norman when
he protests they go into hiding, and uses a high power rifle to shoot at
his friend Robbie Robertson (to fool Robbie into thinking O.N.I. was
threatening to kill him). Although they succeed in exposing the illegal
activities of O.N.I. and clear Wilson's name, Sam's methods cause his
relationship with Captain America to become strained. Cap confronts
Falcon about his recent actions, and Falcon, angered at what he sees as
an ultimatum, terminates their partnership. As they are walking away,
Norman (who blames Falcon for the end of his relationship with Leila)
appears and shoots at Falcon. Captain America is seriously injured by
the stray bullets, and even appears to die. The shock of watching his
best friend seemingly die because of his actions has a powerful affect
on Sam, who briefly gives up being Falcon and reexamines his life.

Sam Wilson reappears as Falcon in the 2005 "House of M" storyline and in
the 2006-2007 "Civil War" storyline. In the latter, he supports
Captain America against the Superhuman Registration Act. When the
Captain becomes incapacitated, Falcon temporarily assumes leadership of
the "Secret Avengers" rebel group. Following Captain America's
assassination by the machinations of the Red Skull, the Falcon registers
with the government and is made responsible for Harlem, although he
continues to maintain contact with the underground New Avengers. He
is also called upon to investigate the Captain's assassination by
locating Winter Soldier and tracking down the Red Skull.

2010s

[Wilson as Captain America on the cover of All-New Captain America #1
(November 2014). Art by Stuart Immonen.] Falcon appears in the 2010
Shadowland storyline, after which he becomes an operative in the new
incarnation of the Heroes for Hire team, in the book of the same
name. He later appears in the 2012 Avengers vs. X-Men storyline,
helping She-Hulk and several other Avengers contain the students at the
Jean Grey School for Higher Learning.

During the  NOW!_ relaunch, Falcon rejoins the Avengers after
Iron Man and Captain America choose to expand the team's line-up.
After Rogers is aged into an old man, he appoints Falcon as his
'official' replacement as Captain America. During a confrontation
with the Red Skull's daughter Sin, it is revealed that the "Snap"
identity was a fake memory implanted into Sam by the Red Skull in an
attempt to discredit the hero through racism.

As part of the All-New, All-Different  event, Captain America
investigated the disappearance of Mexican teenager Joaquin Torres after
he was abducted by the Sons of the Serpent. After fighting Armadillo
and capturing the leader of the hate group, Captain America
discovered that Joaquin was being used in the experiments of Karl Malus
who turned Joaquin into a bird/human hybrid using Captain America's pet
bird Redwing. When Karl Malus was defeated, Captain America took Joaquin
in. When it was discovered Joaquin's bird/human hybrid condition
wasn't temporary, Captain America learned from Claire Temple that
Joaquin's condition was permanent due to Redwing being vampiric and
sporting a healing factor. When Captain America was captured by the
Serpent Society and thrown out the window by Viper, he was saved by
Joaquin. Using his link with Redwing, Captain America telepathically
sent Joaquin the knowledge on how to fight where he held his own until
Misty Knight and Demolition Man showed up. After the Serpent Society was
defeated, Captain America allowed Joaquin to become his sidekick,
enabling him to become the new Falcon.


Powers, abilities, and equipment

Powers

In his earliest appearances Falcon exhibits a close bond with his bird
Redwing, which in Captain America #174 Professor X confirms as being a
telepathic link. The Red Skull later reveals that he had used the Cosmic
Cube to create a "super-normal mental link" between Sam Wilson and
Redwing. Falcon later recalled the experience, stating "Hurt like
hell. Being mentally fused with that falcon. Able to see through
his eyes."

Falcon eventually revealed that he has been able to extend this empathic
link. "I'm always psychically connected with Redwing, but through
concentration I've recently tapped into another ability -- I'm able to
link-up with other birds. ... I have over six billion pairs of eyes in
the United States alone." He used this ability to quickly search New
York City when the criminal Scarecrow kidnapped two children, as
well as to spy on Senator Dell Rusk (actually the Red Skull in disguise)
and Henry Peter Gyrich. He is also apparently able to access the
memories of birds, and see things they had witnessed in the past
(although birds have a different concept of the passage of time, which
makes it difficult for him to know when any events they witnessed
occurred).

Falcon has shown some ability to apparently control birds, as shown when
he enlisted their aid in attacking Scarecrow, and when, badly injured
and manacled to a wall, he telepathically summoned a large number of
different birds from the surrounding area to smash through a window and
attack the Red Skull.

Uniform and flight harness

The Falcon's original wing harness featured detachable jet-powered
glider wings made of lightweight titanium ribbing and Mylar. The wings
were covered with wafer-thin solar power receptors that convert sunlight
into electricity to power miniature high-speed electric turbine fans in
his uniform and boots. The wings detached and reattached to his uniform
cybernetically. The harness was destroyed in Captain America and the
Falcon #2 (2004). The uniform was made of synthetic stretch fabric
lined with a steel-alloy mesh.

After the original flying harness's destruction in a 2004 storyline,
the Black Panther supplied Falcon with a new costume and wings. An
emitter array on Falcon's back creates holographic "hard light" wings
with a maximum wingspan of up to . Controlled by a cybernetic link, the
wings can be instantly reconfigured into "dozens of different cruise
configurations". A "magnetic drive", in turn, provides the thrust needed
to get Falcon airborne. The emitter also possesses GPS jamming devices
that prevent satellite tracking, while the hard-light wings interfere
with infra-red tracking. A vibranium microweave was added to the costume
itself, making Falcon resistant to small arms fire. The entire
system is controlled mentally through cybernetic circuitry in the
Falcon's mask. The costume has in the past featured a hidden "talon," a
cybernetically controlled grappling line built into the gauntlets of his
costume which he uses to entangle opponents, hook objects, or for
swinging and climbing when his wings are detached. The costume's visors
come equipped with various capabilities, including infrared lenses,
giving him the ability to see objects by their infrared signature at
night, magnification capabilities, and remote imaging sensors that allow
a full 360 degree of vision when activated. The cowl also has a wide
band receiver and transmitter with an unspecified range. The suit was
originally built by the Black Panther, with costume modifications by
Desmond Burrell.

Abilities

The Falcon is an excellent trainer of wild birds and is a skilled
martial artist and gymnast, having been trained by Captain America.

Redwing is a highly trained hunting falcon who responds to the Falcon's
verbal and mental commands and joins him in battle against his
adversaries.

At one point, a Sentinel chased him, believing him to be a mutant,
but this was later debunked and the Sentinel is presumed to have been
malfunctioning.


Reception

Falcon was placed as the 96th greatest comic book hero by IGN, which
opined that the partnership between him and Captain America forms one of
the greatest crime fighting duos in comics, and as #45 on their list
of the "Top 50 Avengers".


Other versions

-   Falcon appears as one of the zombified heroes in the 
    Zombies universe. Initially, he is among the many heroes summoned
    by Nick Fury to fight off the infection, but he winds up being
    infected. Afterwards, in  Zombies 3, he, along with other
    wing-laden characters (Angel, Beak and Vulture), attack Machine Man,
    Ultron and Jocasta as soon as they arrive in this ravaged universe,
    but he and the others are quickly killed by Machine Man.
-   In Amazing Spider-Girl #7, which is part of the MC2 universe,
    Falcon was revealed to be dead. However, the Ladyhawk twins wear
    attire similar to his first costume (before he got his wings).
-   In the "Once and Future King" story arc from Black Panther, a
    retired Sam Wilson is shown as the mayor of New York City 25 years
    into the future. He comes out of retirement for one final mission to
    help Black Panther defeat T'charra, T'Chaka's treasonous son.

[The Ultimate  version of Falcon on the cover of Ultimate Comics:
The Ultimates #7 (April 2012). Art by Kaare Andrews.]

-   In the Ultimate  universe, Samuel Wilson is an explorer,
    adventurer, and scientist who uses a backpack with high-tech folding
    wings to fly. Wilson first appeared in Ultimate Nightmare and then
    worked on the Vision, demonstrating a high level of technological
    understanding and confronted George Tarleton of A.I.M. aboard a
    space station studying a Gah Lak Tus module. He is an agent
    of S.H.I.E.L.D. rather than an official member of the Ultimates
    or Reserves. He has served with or under General Nick Fury, and was
    a member of the armed forces but retired to pursue
    scientific interests. This version appears to be an accomplished
    combatant, especially when using the sharp edge of the metal wings
    he wears as a weapon, which are controlled through the help of
    nanotechnology, with which he can communicate and retrieve
    computer information. The wings are partially self-repairing, as
    referenced in Ultimate Extinction.
-   In 's MAX imprint series U.S. War Machine, Falcon appeared
    alongside Captain America and Hawkeye; he and Hawkeye served as
    Captain America's backup and wore no costumes, only being addressed
    by their real names. In this reality, Captain America was actually
    Bucky wearing the Captain's uniform as here the Captain had died in
    World War II in his stead.
-   In the 2006 comic What If Captain America had fought in the Civil
    War?_, the Earth-717 version of Wilson was an orphan raised by a
    Shawnee medicine man, and grew up to fight in the American Civil War
    as part of an Indian volunteer regiment. He performs a ritual to
    give Steven Rogers the power of We-Pi-Ahk, the Eagle Spirit, and has
    a red eagle painted on his chest for this ceremony. He is killed by
    Colonel Barnes (who in this reality is the White Skull).
-   In the "Heroes Reborn" universe, created by Franklin Richards, a
    version of Samuel Wilson/Falcon appears. His father, Abraham "Abe"
    Wilson fought alongside Captain America during World War II, but is
    later killed by Master Man's army. During the fight, Abe's son
    Sam Wilson is shot in a fight and gravely wounded, but Captain
    America saves his life by giving him a transfusion of the
    Super-Soldier's own blood. Consequently, Wilson gains superhuman
    abilities comparable to those of Captain America. His military
    nickname, "The Falcon", becomes his superhero code name, avenges his
    father by beating Master Man, and along with Captain America, and
    Nick Fury defeat the Red Skull's plans for world domination.
-   In an alternate timeline seen in Avengers: The Children's Crusade,
    Sam was succeeded as the Falcon by his daughter Samantha. Samantha
    is shown as a member of the Avengers alongside her husband Eli (the
    new Captain America), and their son Steve (the new Bucky).
-   In Daredevil: End of Days, Wilson is briefly shown as the future
    president of the United States of America.
-   During the Secret Wars storyline, an alternate, naturally-winged
    version of Sam Wilson is a member of the Thor Corps (which are the
    police force of Battleworld). He and the Thor Corps members arrest
    Miss America after she violates Doom's laws by throwing a Megalodon
    that attacked Arcadia far enough to go over the Shield and end up in
    the Deadlands.
-   A female version of Sam Wilson (Samantha T. Wilson) serves as the
    original Captain America of the Spider-Gwen universe of Earth-65.
    When World War II struck, she became one of the first female
    African-American pilots in the U.S. military. Eventually, she was
    recruited into Project Rebirth, and was chosen to undergo the
    procedure when the other candidates Bucky Barnes, Steve Rogers, and
    Isaiah Bradley were badly injured by Nazi agents. After this, she
    became Captain America, and fought the Nazis. When the Nazis
    attempted to summon creatures from another dimension, she entered
    said dimension to hold off the invading forces, un-aging in this
    reality for nearly 75 years. When she finally defeated them and
    returned to her home dimension of Earth-65, she was recruited
    by S.H.I.E.L.D. director Peggy Carter to continue her service as
    Captain America as one of her agents.
    -   Another version of Sam Wilson appears in the Spider-Gwen
        universe of Earth-65. He is the male clone of Samantha Wilson
        and is also this universe's Falcon where he works as Captain
        America's sidekick. Falcon is known as Sam 13 and is an
        expert sniper-assassin. He is aided by Redwing (who in this
        reality is a robotic falcon) where Sam 13 used him for assault
        and reconnaissance. Falcon and Redwing first come into contact
        with Spider-Woman while she was fighting Lizard.


In other media

Television

-   The Falcon (along with his bird Redwing) appeared as a member of the
    Avengers in the television series The Avengers: United They Stand,
    voiced by Martin Roach.
-   Falcon (along with his bird Redwing) appears in The Super Hero
    Squad Show, with Falcon voiced by Alimi Ballard and Redwing's vocal
    effects provided by Steven Blum. In this version, he is capable
    of launching his "feathers" at his enemies.
-   Falcon appears in The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes episodes
    "Nightmare in Red", "Code Red", and "Avengers Assemble!", voiced by
    Lance Reddick. Alongside Doc Samson, Falcon is a mind-controlled
    servant of Dell Rusk.
-   Falcon appears as one of the main characters in the animated series
    Avengers Assemble, voiced by Bumper Robinson. In this
    series, he is depicted as a seventeen-year-old S.H.I.E.L.D.
    operative that Tony had his eye on. When the team was brought
    together to save Captain America from Red Skull, Sam was originally
    offered the War Machine armor, but turned it down in favor of the
    Falcon armor. The wing pack is capable of detaching itself from the
    rest of the armor to become "Redwing Mode" and fly by itself to the
    point where it can whip up tornadoes. By the end of the first
    season, Falcon dons a new version of his armor where there is a
    beak-shaped visor over his eyes.
-   Falcon appears in the Lego  Super Heroes: Maximum Overload
    mini-series, voiced again by Bumper Robinson.
-   Falcon appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man episodes "Avenging
    Spider-Man, Part 1" and "Avenging Spider-Man, Part 2", voiced again
    by Bumper Robinson.
-   Falcon appears in the Japanese anime series  Disk Wars: The
    Avengers, voiced by Kaito Ishikawa in the Japanese version.

Film

[Anthony Mackie as the Falcon in a character poster for the 2014 film
Captain America: The Winter Soldier.]

-   Anthony Mackie portrays Sam Wilson in the  Cinematic Universe,
    with the character's first appearance being in the 2014 film
    Captain America: The Winter Soldier. In the film, Wilson
    uses a pair of submachine guns as his main weapons and flies using a
    jet pack with articulated wings. Mackie reprises the role in the
    2015 films Avengers: Age of Ultron, Ant-Man, and
    Captain America: Civil War. Redwing makes a first
    appearance in Civil War as Falcon's bird-based robotic drone.

Theatre

-   Falcon appears in the  Universe: LIVE!_ arena stage show.

Video games

-   Falcon appears as a playable character in the  Super Hero
    Squad video game and its sequel  Super Hero Squad: The
    Infinity Gauntlet, with Alimi Ballard reprising the role.
-   Falcon is once again a playable character in the game  Super
    Hero Squad: Comic Combat, with Ballard voicing the role.
-   Falcon is a playable character in  Super Hero Squad Online.
-   Falcon appears as DLC in Lego  Super Heroes, voiced by
    Andrew Kishino.
-   Falcon appears in the Facebook game : Avengers Alliance.
    He appears in the 17th Spec Ops game loosely based upon the events
    of Captain America: The Winter Soldier.
-   The movie version of Falcon appears as a Team-Up character in
     Heroes, with Andrew Kishino reprising the role. An
    alternate version of Sam Wilson as Captain America was later added
    to the game.
-   Falcon appears as a playable character in Disney Infinity: 
    Super Heroes, voiced by Bumper Robinson. Falcon's wings are
    also available as a usable vehicle for other heroes. He also
    appears in Disney Infinity 3.0.
-   The movie version of Falcon appears as a playable character in
    : Future Fight. An alternate version of Sam Wilson as
    Captain America was later added to celebrate the 4th of July.
-   Falcon is a playable character in Lego 's Avengers. His
    Captain America appearance is available through DLC.
-   Falcon appears as a playable character in Playmation:
    Avengers.
-   A teenage version of Falcon appears as a playable character in
     Avengers Academy, voiced by A$AP Rocky.

