FANG is a fictional extraterrestrial character appearing in American
comic books published by . The character first appeared in
Uncanny X-Men #107 in October 1977.


Fictional character biography

FANG was a member of the Royal Elite of the Shi'ar Imperial Guard. He
joined the other Imperial Guardsmen in battle against the X-Men on
behalf of Emperor D'Ken on a nameless Shi'ar Empire planet. He was
attacked by Wolverine, who defeated him and stripped him of his costume,
using it to sneak up on the other Guardsmen.

Fang later became a "Borderer": a Guardsman stationed on one of the
Shi'ar's conquered worlds to help its governor enforce Shi'ar law there.
Fang and a small number of other Guardsmen became renegades and turned
traitor, betraying the Shi'ar Empire by serving Deathbird in her attempt
to overthrow her sister Princess-Majestrix Lilandra. This incident
involves Lord Samedar attempting to use some of the outlaw Guard in
order to attack the Earth. His faction is opposed by other Shi'ar and
the X-Men, the renegade Guardsmen battling the loyal Guardsmen, and Fang
fighting Nightcrawler during the conflict. The Brood interfere with a
concussion-style bomb secretly hidden in the midst of the battle.

Soon after this incident, Fang is apparently slain when the Brood uses
him as a host body for the egg of one of their young on the
"Broodworld," former home-world of the Brood. His body is consumed and
transformed by the Brood embryo implanted inside him, and the resulting
Brood alien later fought Wolverine who killed it.

In Untold Tales of Captain  — which takes place before his first
encounter with the X-Men — Fang, the Guard,  and the Kree face an
attack by the Brood. A small division of the Guard, Deathbolt, Smasher,
Fang and Oracle had been selected to guard the personage of Deathbird,
the current ruler of the Shi'ar empire. They allied, then fought with
the Kree after the latter came to their assistance against a murderous
attack from the Skrulls.

Fang would reappear years later on Earth alive and well, he came to
visit Wolverine only to discover that his old buddy had died. Fang
eventually revealed all his history with Logan to X-23 even revealing
how he came back to life after being killed by the Brood. According to
Fang himself, his species, the Lupak, reproduce through cloning and keep
mental templates of the citizens on file, and when one of them dies, a
new one is made. He even reveals to X-23 that while technically he's not
the Fang Wolverine met, since he's a clone, he is still the one
Wolverine knew.


Powers and abilities

Fang's strength, speed, stamina, durability, agility, and reflexes are
higher than that of the average human. He is an excellent hand-to-hand
combatant, having been trained by the Shi'ar Imperial Guard.

Imperial Guardsmen wear small anti-gravity devices permitting them to
fly, designed by Shi'ar scientists and technicians.


Inspiration

Several of the members of the Imperial Guard are at least partly based
on members of the  team Legion of Super-Heroes. (Dave Cockrum,
co-creator of the Guard, also had a long run as artist on the Legion.)
Fang is based on LSH member Timber Wolf.

