FANTOMEX is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books
published by . The character is commonly associated with
the X-Men titles. Fantomex first appeared in New X-Men #128 (August,
2002) and was created by Grant Morrison and Igor Kordey. Initially
introduced as a character similar to Fantômas and Diabolik, he is later
revealed to be an escaped experiment from the Weapon Plus Program.


Publication history

Fantomex resembles the titular character of the Italian comic book
Diabolik,_ whose film adaptation was released as Danger: Diabolik,_
Diabolik's lover being named Eva. The character of Diabolik is loosely
based on the character Fantômas, the subject of a series of early-20th
century French detective thrillers and a popular Mexican comic book
adaptation, whose name is more directly reflected in Fantomex's own
name. Fantomex's name, Jean-Phillipe, is a reference to actor John
Phillip Law, star of "Danger: Diabolik". In addition, his Weapon X
designation -- "Weapon XIII"—is a reference to the secret agent
protagonist of the Franco-Belgian comic XIII.

After Morrison's run, the character made sporadic appearances in Weapon
X #23–25, Mystique #20–21, 24, the Dark Reign: The List—Wolverine
one-shot and in Uncanny X-Men #515-522 during the "Nation X" storyline
before becoming a founding member of new covert X-Force as seen in the
monthly Uncanny X-Force series.

In July 2013,  announced the character's first solo series,
Fantomex MAX, written by Andrew Hope, and illustrated by Shawn Crystal.
The series does not take place in current  continuity, and the
character is not affiliated with any other  characters. In this
series, the character of Fantomex is a more literal take on the Diabolik
character, with a storyline less influenced by traditional superhero
plots, skewing more towards the concepts of intrigue and James
Bond-tinged adventure. Issue 1 debuted on October 2, 2013.


Fictional character biography

Origin

Fantomex was created by the Weapon Plus Program to serve as a
super-sentinel against Earth's mutant population. Weapon Plus created a
population of technorganic organisms whose living tissue was fused with
Sentinel nanotechnology at the cellular level. His mother, a member of
this race, became pregnant when she was fertilized with nanomachines,
resulting in the birth of Fantomex. Like the rest of his people, he was
born and raised in the World, a man-made environment designed to create
super-sentinels, media-friendly mutant-hunters modeled after Saturday
morning cartoons. Although his nationality is technically British as the
World was located in England, Fantomex claims he was raised in a virtual
France with imperfect programming. He's developed a French sense of
identity and persona; whereas his experiment designation at the World
facility was "Charlie Cluster-7," he usually goes by the name
"Jean-Phillipe."

New X-Men

During his first appearance, Fantomex seeks a safe haven at the
X-Corporation in Paris while fleeing from authorities. He claims to be a
mutant thief with the ill-defined power of misdirection. Bleeding
profusely from bullet wounds, he asks for asylum, which Professor X
grants him. Fantomex explains to Professor X and Jean Grey that he is
being hunted because he is one of the most wanted thieves in Europe.
Neither Professor X nor Jean Grey are able to verify his claims due to
his ceramic mask, a device that blocks their mental probes. However,
they agree to aid him, and after escaping the soldiers who surround the
building, Fantomex uses his ship E.V.A. to take Professor X and Jean
Grey to his home in France. While there, he introduces them to his
mother and continues to describe his success as a thief. In fact, he
tells the two that he has stolen sensitive information about the Weapon
Plus project while in the Chunnel, and offers to sell it to Professor
Xavier for $1 billion. After submitting his proposal, he puts himself in
a light hypnotic trance and removes the bullets that riddle his body.
Finished, he asks Professor X and Jean Grey to accompany him back to the
Chunnel in an effort to destroy Weapon XII. The three speed away in
E.V.A., leaving the house and elderly woman behind.

Fantomex then leads Professor Xavier and Jean Grey to the Chunnel
disaster. Packed full of people and animals that Weapon XII has turned
into mindless slaves, confusion runs rampant. Knowing that those who
have fallen prey to Weapon XII's influence are lost, Fantomex kills
Darkstar and all others who are mentally connected to the creature.
After Fantomex destroys Weapon XII by using a remote detonator, it is
noticed that there are two empty Weapon Plus transport tubes in the
Chunnel: one that held the violent Weapon XII and another that held
something called Weapon XIII. After the battle, Fantomex's ceramic mask
slips a bit and Jean Grey uses her telepathy to deduce his true
identity: Fantomex is actually Weapon XIII and had also been in transit
in the Chunnel. It was during the accident in the Chunnel that he
escaped and was subsequently chased to the X-Corporation building. He
confesses to Jean Grey that he is not the master thief that he had
claimed, but is now set out to earn that reputation. He assures Jean
Grey that he refuses to be anyone's soldier, and as a result Jean Grey
allows Fantomex to disappear into the Chunnel before the authorities
arrive.

Fantomex later travels to Afghanistan in an attempt to steal a list of
the world's richest mutant slaver traders, the names on which he intends
to blackmail. There he encounters an unconscious mutant known as Dust, a
former captive who unwittingly killed her captors by turning into a
deadly sandstorm. Upon his exit, he encounters Wolverine, leaving Dust
in his care.

Soon after, Fantomex contacts Wolverine and offers him information about
his mysterious past if he helps Fantomex destroy Ultimaton, also known
as Weapon XV, the last creation of the Weapon Plus Program. Fantomex,
Wolverine, and the X-Men's Cyclops travel to the World, an artificial,
time-altering environment designed by Weapon Plus to quickly develop and
evolve new generations of super-soldiers.

The three are defeated by Weapon XV (Ultimaton), who escapes by breaking
through the barriers of the World and flying to the Weapon Plus space
station. The team pursues their target in E.V.A., Fantomex's biological
spacecraft. Upon arriving at the space station Fantomex keeps his word
by showing Wolverine the complete Weapon Plus database. Shocked at
learning the terrible details of his past (including his role in the
slaughter of the entire population of Roanoke while under the influence
of Weapon X), Wolverine initiates the self-destruct sequence for the
space station before catching and apparently killing Ultimaton (who
reappears later as a subordinate). Fantomex and Cyclops escape the
explosion in one of the station's shuttles.

Back on Earth, Fantomex joins Cyclops and a group of X-Men students in
their fight against Xorn, who had taken the identity of Magneto. He had
gathered a new Brotherhood of Mutants and had taken over New York City.
With the aid of Beak, Fantomex, and the others were able to break into
Xorn's skyscraper headquarters and bring him down.

Weapon X and Mystique

Later on, Fantomex tries to track down John Sublime, the director of the
Weapon Plus program. However, upon examining his empty grave, Fantomex
finds a note reading, "Roanoke." He locates the secret facility of
the splinter program Weapon X and finds it abandoned except for Agent
Zero. The pair reluctantly joins forces and travels to the site of
Roanoke, a town whose inhabitants were slaughtered after Weapon X
unleashed a brainwashed Wolverine on them years earlier. There, the
three finally encounter Sublime but are opposed by his U-Men and forced
to flee against overwhelming odds. In an attempt to escape in E.V.A.,
Fantomex is shot down and left for dead.

However, Fantomex manages to survive and some time later is contacted by
the diminutive mutant Shortpack who seeks his help in assassinating
mutant arms dealer Steinbeck, also known as the Quiet Man, in revenge
for his killing of an agent under Shortpack's care. Fantomex refuses,
not wanting to become responsible for allowing the good-natured
Shortpack to become a killer. Shortpack is captured by Steinbeck soon
after, and whilst investigating his disappearance the shapechanging
mutant Mystique, a double agent for both Xavier and Steinbeck's ally
Shepard, learns of his meeting with Fantomex. Though despising him after
a past encounter in Madagascar, Mystique finds Fantomex in Monte Carlo,
once again operating under the pretense of being a mutant thief, and
learns of Shortpack's plan. As she leaves to rescue him, Fantomex
follows and uncovers her intent to assassinate Xavier. In exchange for
his silence, Fantomex bids Mystique perform a heist for him. After she
returns with the stolen goods (a vintage Spider-Man costume), Mystique
infects both Fantomex and E.V.A. with a techno-organic virus, seemingly
killing them both to keep her plan secret. However, it was all a
ruse as Mystique knew she was being monitored by Shepard. Fantomex later
resurfaces and helps Mystique capture Shepard, giving her access to
Steinbeck whom she finally defeats.

Dark Reign, Nation X, and Second Coming

During his tenure as leader of HAMMER, Norman Osborn tries to take
control of the World and the Weapon Plus creations. Wolverine and
Noh-Varr head to the World to try to stop Norman Osborn but are soon
attacked by a large army of Weapon Plus creations infected by Allgod
(Weapon XVI), the living religion. Noh-Varr is rescued by Fantomex (who
has apparently spent all the time since his last appearance "stealing
things mostly" and admits he should have kept an eye on the World), and
the two of them make their way to the World's brain (now a sentient
being) where they are confronted by the Allgod drones, Wolverine
included. Fantomex is not affected by Allgod because nanites in his
neocortex render him incapable of believing in anything greater than
himself. Noh-Varr is able to disarm Allgod by kissing the World's brain,
thus showing it some compassion, and disabling Allgod. Immediately after
this, the three of them defeat Osborn's invading army of Deathlok
prototypes. Fantomex then uses a shrink-ray he reportedly stole from
Doctor Doom to shrink the World and take it for his own.

Soon afterwards Fantomex is hired by a young mutant boy to hunt a rogue
Predator X stalking mutants beneath New York City. After dealing
with the Predator X, Fantomex and E.V.A. run into Wolverine, Psylocke,
and Colossus, who ask for his help to defeat the creators of the
Predator X. Fantomex initially turns their request down, but is later
convinced by the same young boy he helped to help the X-Men. Fantomex
saves the team from a group of John Sublime's associates and later takes
them home.

Fantomex remains with the X-Men on Utopia and is later seen in San
Francisco fighting alongside the X-Men against Bastion's army of Nimrod
sentinels. Once the battle is over, he's shown to have secretly
joined a new iteration of X-Force, alongside Wolverine, Archangel,
Psylocke, and Deadpool.

Uncanny X-Force

[Fantomex with Psylocke in Uncanny X-Force #12: "Dark Angel Saga,
Chapter 2: Interruption" (art by Chris Stevens)]

The first mission of the new team is an assassination job to kill
Apocalypse, reborn in the form of a child and being indoctrinated by
Clan Akkaba on their Moon base. After defeating Apocalypse's Final
Horsemen and getting to the young Apocalypse, no one on the team can
summon up the courage to kill a child. When the group resigns to bring
the child back with them and to reeducate him, Fantomex fires a shot in
the child's head, apparently killing him.

Soon afterwards, Fantomex realizes a presence calling itself Weapon
Infinity has started manipulating the timestream within the World. After
a battle against Weapon Infinity (actually the transforming of all
future heroes into time-travelling Deathlok-type cyborgs ), it is
revealed that Fantomex has actually cloned the Apocalypse child in order
to see if the boy could become a hero if raised as a good man in a
virtual environment deep within the World.

Fantomex is later abducted by Captain Britain who brands him a
dimensional threat and take him to Otherworld, where an interdimensional
court sentences him to erasure from existence itself. He is rescued by
his teammate Psylocke, who turns against her brothers. Together they
encounter the Skinless Man and rejoin their teammates to defeat The
Goat, a corrupted future incarnation of Psylocke and Captain Britain's
older brother Jamie Braddock, who attempted to consume the
multiverse.

When Psylocke is captured by the newly reformed Brotherhood of Evil
Mutants, Fantomex sacrifices himself to save her. He is captured and
killed when the Skinless Man cuts out his heart. With his connection to
E.V.A severed, she believes herself dying as well. She survives,
however, and evolves into a humanoid form.

After X-Force disbands, E.V.A. attempts to clone Fantomex back to life,
but due to his three brains, an error occurs and three different bodies
are grown for each personality: the evil brain becomes "Weapon XIII"
(originally referred to as "Jean-Phillippe"), and wears a costume with
inverted colors; the noble brain becomes "Cluster", a female version of
Fantomex; and the mischievous one is restored to his proper body, taking
the name of "Fantomex". He goes on to continue his relationship with
Psylocke. Fantomex and Cluster later hijack a plane (leaving the
pilot drugged and the flight attendants bound and gagged) in order to
find Psylocke and Storm, but Weapon XIII follows and kidnaps Fantomex.
Cluster enlists the help of the new Uncanny X-Force, (Puck, Psylock,
Spiral, and Storm) to find Fantomex..


Powers and abilities

Fantomex can create extremely realistic illusions (he calls this ability
"misdirection"). This ability is based on "reality skewing", rather than
telepathy or holographic projection (Uncanny X-Force 14).

Fantomex has an external nervous system referred to as E.V.A. He has
mentioned that E.V.A. emerged from his mouth during his time in the
World and developed into a techno-organic flying saucer-like vessel. The
relationship between E.V.A and Fantomex is symbiotic, so if E.V.A.
experiences pain when she is not within Fantomex, he will feel it as
well. When E.V.A. is separated from his body, Fantomex feels no pain and
seems able to ignore most injuries. Along with this symbiotic
relationship, Fantomex is linked to E.V.A. via telepathy. He can see
through E.V.A.'s point of view and can take control of her movement.
However, this requires concentration on the part of Fantomex. Moreover,
E.V.A, as a bio-mechanical being, can reshape her body into a variety of
forms, fly herself, and generate energy discharges to be used as
weapons. Fantomex contains multiple brains for parallel and independent
thinking as well as nano-active blood; the nanites in his brain prohibit
him from believing in anything greater than himself, such as gods or any
supernatural beings. He also maintains an internal back-up nervous
system which can be engaged if E.V.A. is damaged. However, this system
is less complex than E.V.A. and does not allow Fantomex to see colors.

He possesses enhanced strength, speed, agility, dexterity, durability,
reflexes, coordination, balance, and endurance. Fantomex is also capable
of registering frequencies beyond the hearing range of normal humans. He
even once mentioned a healing factor.

He's gifted with three different brains, which allows him to survive
severe head wounds since his secondary brains can take over should one
be destroyed.

Fantomex can also enter a trance state and perform crucial tasks such as
performing surgery on himself. In this state, he can also recover faster
while placed in water. He can expertly read the body language of others
in order to predict their attacks. He is a very skilled hand-to-hand
combatant and a master of stealth techniques. His title in his
birthplace, the World, was "stealth-fighter."

Fantomex is a superb marksman. He used to use special bullets covered in
sentient mutant skin that never missed their target (designed by Sir
James Braddock, the father of Psylocke and Captain Britain) but he used
his last of these against Archangel. He carries a variety of guns and
other weapons.

His mask incorporates telepathy-blocking ceramics. These allow his mind
to remain completely unreadable, even facing the most powerful telepaths
of the  Universe (Professor X and the Shadow King among others).


Other versions

Days of Future Now

In one variant of the Days of Future Past timeline (titled Days of
Future Now and depicted in Frank Tieri's Weapon X series), Weapon X
and the Sentinels are at war with Wolverine's X-Men and many other
mutant groups, including Excelsior and Gene Nation. In this timeline,
Fantomex becomes the host of Sublime and, possessed by the sentient
bacteria, sabotages Wolverine's efforts to overthrow Weapon X.

Here Comes Tomorrow

In the Here Comes Tomorrow storyline, set in an alternate timeline 150
years in the future, the entire world is ruled by Beast (possessed by
Sublime). E.V.A. is a member of this era's X-Men, which includes
Wolverine, Tito (Beak's grandson), Tom Skylark and his Sentinel known as
Rover, Three-in-One (the Stepford Cuckoos), No-Girl, and a reformed
Cassandra Nova as their leader. E.V.A. has taken on a humanoid form and
does not want to bond with anyone else's nervous system after "what
happened to Fantomex." Whatever happened to Fantomex is never explicitly
explained in the storyline, though it is strongly hinted that Beast's
U-Man follower, Apollyon the Destroyer, is actually Fantomex.

X-Men: The End

Fantomex is depicted briefly in X-Men: The End as part of X-23's dream
induced by the Ladies Mastermind, as she is stated to be in love with
him in this reality. In X-23's dream, they are shown together playing
with a small daughter in their backyard.


In other media

Video games

-   Fantomex makes a cameo appearance in Deadpool's ending in Ultimate
     vs. Capcom 3.
-   Fantomex appears as an unlockable character in : Avengers
    Alliance. At first, he could only be unlocked by completing the
    Season 6 Adamantium PVP, but he is now available normally.

