FERON is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books
published by . The character usually appears in comic books
featuring the British superhero team Excalibur, of which he is a former
member. Created by writer/artist Alan Davis, he first appeared in
Excalibur vol. 1 #48 (March 1992).


Fictional character biography

Feron's ancestor, also named Feron, was born on an alternate Earth. He
was a great mage; Feron and Merlyn were both students of Necrom, their
race's Sorcerer Supreme. Necrom had discovered that aligning parallel
universes would create a matrix of nearly limitless magical energy. He
invited his students to help him create such a matrix. They traveled to
Earth-616, where Feron contacted the Phoenix Force. He became host to
the Phoenix Force and used its powers to project an ancient tower across
the omniverse, creating a copy of the tower on every alternate Earth in
existence. These towers formed a permanent alignment and the energy
matrix. Necrom had other plans though and tried to drain the Phoenix
from Feron. Feron retaliated and strengthened by the Phoenix Force, he
fought Necrom. Meanwhile Merlyn had jumped into the energy matrix and
took its powers for himself. Necrom fled with part of the Phoenix Force
and the Phoenix left Feron. Feron, blaming himself for the pain the
Phoenix had suffered at Necrom's hands, stayed on Earth-616 and
dedicated his life to seek forgiveness. He told his children to prepare
for the inevitable return of Necrom.

Centuries later, Feron's heir was a teenager, also called Feron. He was
the student and ward of an unnamed order of monks based in County Sligo,
Ireland, and was born in their monastery. Feron was trained as a mystic,
and became a sentinel awaiting the coming of the Anti-Phoenix. Feron had
never touched the Earth, always levitating himself with his magical
powers and he wore bandages around his feet to prevent contact with the
ground. According to his teachers, an order of monks, Feron would become
the host to the Phoenix the moment his bare feet touched the ground.
Feron felt Necrom returning to Earth-616, but when his feet touched the
ground nothing happened; another person, Rachel Summers, had already
become the host of the Phoenix. When he first met the superhero group
Excalibur, Feron felt that Rachel was unworthy of the force. Still, he
assisted Rachel and her teammates battling Necrom.

After Necrom's defeat, Feron became a part of Excalibur. He waited by
the ailing Rachel, hoping to claim the Phoenix Force from her if she
died. He was struck down by Jamie Braddock and temporarily distorted
by his powers. He aided Excalibur and the X-Men against the Troll
Associates.

Despite his arrogant behavior and social awkwardness, Feron cared about
his teammates and when Captain Britain disappeared, he tried to comfort
Captain Britain's girlfriend Meggan, who had become catatonic with
grief, transforming her body into water in stupor. Feron's magical
attempt to cure her backfired and Feron joined her in suspended
animation, the magical link somehow copying Meggan's elemental
shapeshifting powers.

His liquid form eventually drained away, forgotten by Excalibur. When he
regained his senses, he felt that Excalibur didn't care about him,
because they had never searched for him after his disappearance. He
discovered the Crazy Gang, former enemies of Excalibur, who were just
burying one of their own: the Executioner. The Executioner was a robot,
completely hidden in green robes, who wielded an axe. Feron stole the
robes and the axe and posed as the Executioner to the Crazy Gang,
turning them against Excalibur again. They invaded Captain Britain's
bachelor party, but when Feron was unmasked, he and Excalibur settled
their differences, once he realizes that Excalibur was quite busy
dealing with all other manners of threats. He attends Captain Britain
and Meggan's wedding, after which Excalibur is disbanded.


Powers and abilities

Feron has extensive magical skills which he inherited from his ancestor,
Feron I. He is very adept at levitating himself. He also knows various
magical spells that allow him to manipulate magical energy, bind
opponents with magical spells and create protective shields. He has
mystic senses enabling him to detect the presence of magic. He has
admitted that he failed his alchemy exams though and transmutation is
very difficult for him. While Feron's training was extensive, it wasn't
until he joined Excalibur that he was forced to use his powers in combat
situations, many of which Feron was not prepared for. He does have
considerable knowledge and skill in the mystic arts, and was educated by
an unnamed order of monks based in County Sligo, Ireland.

Feron was also trained to have the capacity to serve as a host for the
Phoenix Force.

