The FIXER is the name of two different fictional characters appearing in
American comic books published by .


Publication history

The first  character known as the Fixer was Roscoe Sweeney.
He first appeared in Daredevil #1 (Apr. 1964), and was created by Stan
Lee, Jack Kirby, and Bill Everett.

The second iteration of Fixer was long-time supervillain Paul Norbert
Ebersol, first appearing in Strange Tales #141 (February 1966) and was
created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. After some time, he appeared as a
regular character in Thunderbolts beginning with issue #144, until he
was forced to leave the team in issue #174.


Fictional character biography

Roscoe Sweeney

ROSCOE SWEENEY was a gangster and crooked fight promoter who was
involved in extortion and illegal gambling who operated as the "Fixer".
He paid boxer "Battling Jack" Murdock to take a fall and lose a fight.
Murdock accepted the money, however, the boxer became determined to
continue the fight and eventually won by a knockout. The Fixer's
right-hand man Slade killed Jack after the fight in retaliation.
Learning of his father's murder and vowing to bring men like the Fixer
to justice, Matt Murdock became a lawyer and also the superhero
Daredevil to do so. Fixer and Slade went to Fogwell's Gym where they
encountered Daredevil. When Fixer and Slade ran for it upon them being
disarmed, Daredevil pursued them into the subway station. After
Daredevil tripped Slade, Fixer had a fatal heart attack when confronted
by Daredevil and died. As Fixer's body fell onto the subway tracks,
Daredevil stopped a subway from running over Fixer's body. Slade was
arrested and sentenced to death by the electric chair.

Paul Norbert Ebersol

PAUL NORBERT EBERSOL was born in Dayton, Ohio. He was a scientist who
held a number of odd jobs, including auto mechanic, television
repairman, and electronics laboratory assistant. He then became the
second and more prominent "Fixer", a supervillain and genius-level
criminal inventor who has often worked for criminal cartels like HYDRA.

In his first appearance, he escaped from prison, teamed with his
partner Mentallo in an attempted takeover of the New York S.H.I.E.L.D.
headquarters, and even captured Nick Fury. Fixer and Mentallo were
defeated by Tony Stark and S.H.I.E.L.D. troops. His connection with
THEM was revealed; and THEM was later revealed as part of HYDRA.
Behind the scenes, he was even revealed as the chief of the HYDRA
Science Division.

With Mentallo, the Fixer later escaped prison again. They invaded the
New York S.H.I.E.L.D. headquarters and captured the Thing. They then
invaded the Baxter Building, battled the Thing and Nick Fury, and used
Doctor Doom's time machine to bring Deathlok from his alternate
future. Mentallo then mind-controlled Deathlok in an attempted
assassination of the U.S. President, but Fixer and Mentallo were
defeated by the Fantastic Four and taken into custody by S.H.I.E.L.D.
The pair was freed from prison by a HYDRA force controlled by Baron
Karza. Fixer created the living machine-intelligence Computrex, which
was destroyed by the Micronauts who then defeated Fixer and Mentallo.

Fixer and Mentallo then aided Professor Power in his attempt to add
Professor X's powers to Mentallo's, but they were defeated by
Spider-Man. Fixer attempted to loot Northwind Observatory of Bruce
Banner's inventions, but was captured by Captain America. Fixer then
invaded the West Coast Avengers Compound in an attempt to steal Iron
Man's armor, but was defeated by Iron Man and Ka-Zar.

When Baron Helmut Zemo formed the fourth incarnation of the Masters of
Evil, Fixer served as his right-hand man. When the Masters of Evil
invaded Avengers Mansion, Fixer created a device enabling Baron Zemo to
control Blackout. Fixer helped engineer the capture of Captain America,
Black Knight, and Edwin Jarvis. Fixer was apprehended by Ant-Man.
Behind the scenes, Fixer was overpowered by the Super-Adaptoid which
changed places with him. The Super-Adaptoid disguised as the Fixer
later escaped prison. The real Fixer was discovered by the Avengers
in the Adaptoid's former confinement tube at Avengers Island. Fixer
later escaped prison with Yellowjacket who then spurned his romantic
advances. The Fixer followed Yellowjacket and battled Yellowjacket and
the Black Knight before escaping.

In Zemo's second incarnation of the Masters of Evil, the team changed
their identity to the Thunderbolts, while Fixer adopted the alias of
TECHNO. He was then apparently killed when his neck was broken by Iron,
one of the Elements of Doom, and he transferred his mind into a robotic
body, and this Techno sided, alone among the Thunderbolts, with Zemo
when he went ahead with his scheme to conquer the planet.

Zemo and Techno decamped to one of Zemo's bases, where Techno began to
experiment with cloning, offering to clone Zemo an unscarred body, and
even cloning Kevin Costner for fun at one point. After the two fell out,
Techno infiltrated the Thunderbolts by replacing Ogre, while continuing
his experiments behind-the-scenes, including recovering Jolt's body when
she was killed and placing it in a healing tube.

Techno's impersonation of Ogre ended when Scourge of the Underworld
stowed away inside him, shrunken, and destroyed his body from the
inside, while he refused to kill Jolt again to allow him to construct a
new body. However, his backup plan worked, and his consciousness was
returned to his original human body—mostly healed, although the nerve
damage in his neck meant he required his tech-pac to bypass the
damage—and the human Ebersol, initially amnesiac of the robot's
exploits, returned to calling himself the Fixer.

Fixer then became one of the Redeemers, a government-backed team whereby
criminals could use it to accelerate their sentences and clear their
record, until most of that team was slaughtered by Graviton. He joined
with the reunited Thunderbolts to stop Graviton, and he was one of the
team members exiled to Counter-Earth. By a complicated series of events,
at the end of the trip to Counter-Earth, Zemo's consciousness ended up
in Fixer's tech-pac. By threatening to disable it and leave him
quadriplegic, Zemo managed to force Fixer to transfer the Baron's
consciousness to his Counter-Earth counterpart's body.

The team remained on Counter-Earth for some time, until, in sealing a
rift, they returned home, leaving Jolt (whom Fixer saved from burning
out in helping to seal the rift) behind. Finally, after Moonstone went
insane, Fixer furnished a device that could give the combined Avengers
and Thunderbolts a couple of seconds to make their move; he then left.

Later, Deadpool visited Fixer at his holiday home to enlist his help in
saving Cable. After a brief fight, Fixer accepted the challenge (and
Deadpool's monetary inducement), and successfully bonded new, benign,
techno-organic mesh to Cable. Some time after this, Fixer suddenly
reappeared to save his former teammate MACH-IV from a fall. Fixer
recruited MACH-IV to join a secretive group headed by Zemo to combat and
destroy Genis-Vell, a member of the Thunderbolts whom Zemo had brought
back to life. The process was flawed, however, and Genis' existence now
threatened the universe.

After Genis was destroyed, Fixer remained with the Thunderbolts, who
were now helmed by Zemo. He helped the team recruit supervillains to the
pro-registration cause during the Civil War. He also helped Zemo save
the Wellspring of Power from the Grandmaster. After Zemo was betrayed
and the Thunderbolts were placed under S.H.I.E.L.D. control, Fixer and
MACH-IV were offered jobs with the Commission on Superhuman Activities.

Ebersol has been identified as one of the 142 registered superheroes who
appear on the cover of the comic book.

During the Heroic Age storyline, Fixer works as the Raft's supervisor
in its section for male supervillains when Captain Steve Rogers and Luke
Cage arrive to recruit Ghost.

As well as working with the Thunderbolts, Fixer has also been seen
working with Baron Zemo.

During the Fear Itself storyline, Fixer was seen working on a
forcefield to secure the rounded up prisoners that escaped from the Raft
after Juggernaut in the form of Kuurth: Breaker of Stone leveled it.

After escaping the Raft by time-traveling, the Thunderbolts wound up
meeting their counterparts - the first Thunderbolts team. Being as
arrogant as they are, present-Fixer and past-Fixer got into an argument
in which Fixer impulsively killed his past self. In order to
preserve the timeline, Fixer surgically changed himself to restore his
younger appearance and preserved his age by a blood-transfusion from
Centurius. Fixer and the past Thunderbolts' memories were wiped,
stranding Fixer in a stable time-loop and preserving the timeline after
his mistake.

During the Avengers: Standoff!_ storyline, Fixer resurfaces where is
shown to be a prisoner of the S.H.I.E.L.D.-established gated community
Pleasant Hills where the technology Kobik that was derived from the
Cosmic Cube turned him into a mild-mannered mechanic named Phil. Phil
was able to see through this and arranged a meet-up with a man named
Jim. Upon showing the training video he stole that featured the details
about Pleasant Hill by Mayor Maria Hill to the S.H.I.E.L.D. Cadets, Phil
used a machine he invented to turn himself back into Fixer and Jim back
into Baron Helmut Zemo. Both of them vowed to use the device on the
other brainwashed supervillains and reduce Pleasant Hills to dust.
Fixer and Baron Zemo began to restore the memories of the other inmates
one by one. Fixer later invented a device that would help Baron Zemo
and his fellow villains find Kobik.


Powers and abilities

The second version of Fixer is an intuitive genius at invention of
weapons and other electrical and mechanical devices. He has designed
numerous devices and paraphernalia for himself, including his body
armor. As weaponry, he has used various devices including bombs,
electronic jamming devices, guided missiles, sonic amplifiers,
brain-wave scanners, and mind-control pods. He has also built
anti-gravity discs which are affixed to his feet and allow flight at the
speed of sound, as well as a special mask which contains a three-hour
air supply and acts as an air pressure reduction valve, together
enabling flight at high velocity and high altitude. Fixer's Techno body
can mentally control his robotic body which is capable of assuming
virtually any form from blast cannons to pile-drivers to even the form
of a space station. To take on larger shapes, Techno absorbed mass from
other mechanical materials nearby. Techno's body also could morph into
forms that appeared completely organic, as with his assumed guise of
Thunderbolt machine-smith Ogre.


In other media

Television

-   The character (as MR. FIX) appears in Iron Man: Armored
    Adventures, voiced by Donny Lucas. He is a genius inventor and a
    high-tech arms dealer with ties to the Maggia. For protection, he
    employs highly sophisticated communications and surveillance
    equipment, teams of soldiers, and individuals equipped with
    high-tech weapons. Physically, he resembles his comic
    book counterpart. In the episode “Whiplash”, Mr. Fix orders Whiplash
    to kill Pepper Potts’ FBI agent father (who is close to apprehending
    him); then, Mr. Fix sends Whiplash after Pepper herself. Whiplash
    fails at both tasks; ultimately, Iron Man defeats him. In the
    episode “Man and Iron Man”, Mr. Fix sends an enhanced Whiplash to
    get revenge and prove that his weapons are effective against
    Iron Man. When Iron Man loses control of his own suit, Mr. Fix is
    thrashed, begs for his life, and is nearly killed when his lab
    is destroyed. In the episode "Don’t Worry, Be Happy", Iron Man
    suggests that Mr. Fix is trying to eliminate Unicorn and Killer
    Shrike upon learning that Mr. Fix hired them to perform a robbery,
    but, unbeknownst to them, equipped them with explosives powerful
    enough to destroy the entire city. Mr. Fix later returns in the
    second season under the employ of a shadowy figure and has Whiplash
    kidnap Obadiah Stane and Justin Hammer (who had orchestrated his
    own kidnapping). After escaping from Iron Man and being picked up in
    a limo, Mr. Fix is surprised that his mysterious benefactor was
    Hammer all along. Hammer's assistant Sasha then implants a
    nano-virus into Mr. Fix which Justin would activate if Mr. Fix
    threatens him or leaves his services. He later revives Living Laser
    in the episode "Look Into the Light" as part of Project Titanium yet
    the side effect ends up splitting Living Laser into a good side and
    a bad side. Although Living Laser gets away after both halves were
    reunited, Mr. Fix gives Justin Hammer a disk with the information
    needed to complete Project Titanium. In the episode "Titanium vs.
    Iron", Mr. Fix completes the Titanium Man armor yet Hammer wants to
    test drive it despite the fact that Mr. Fix hasn't found a way to
    bond the titanium with vibranium. Growing impatient that Mr. Fix had
    not yet found a way to properly bond titanium to vibranium following
    his first outing as Titanium Man, Hammer declares that Mr. Fix has
    failed for the last time and activates the nano-virus killing his
    physical body. However, Justin removed a flash drive with Mr. Fix's
    consciousness on it from a compartment in Mr. Fix's back and places
    it into a nearby console. Hammer tells Mr. Fix that his
    consciousness has evolved at the cost of his body and that now he
    can work on Hammer's other projects 24/7. In the episode "The Hawk
    and the Spider", Justin speaks with Mr. Fix 2.0 about the User
    Interface Chip which would be able to control the Titanium Man armor
    and that the User Interface Chip must be programmed well to be
    adapted to the armor. Hammer tells Mr. Fix 2.0 to find a way to make
    it work or he will download him into a hard drive and throw it into
    the sewer. In the episode "Heavy Mettle", Hammer uses a control
    device made by Mr. Fix 2.0 to control the Iron Monger armor into
    going berserk. In the episode "Hostile Takeover", Mr. Fix 2.0 works
    on the 'dissection' of Iron Man (whose armor was under lock-down to
    save enough power upon being knocked down by Titanium Man) even when
    the Iron Man armor is accidentally recharged during Killer Shrike
    and Unicorn's fight. When Hammer receives a shock trying to remove
    the Iron Man helmet, Mr. Fix 2.0 tells Justin that War Machine is
    approaching Hammer Multinational. In the episode "The Hammer
    Falls", Mr. Fix 2.0 creates the Zombie Gas which Justin tests on
    Count Nefaria. When Mr. Fix 2.0 is unable to trace the call of an
    individual who recently started blackmailing Justin, Justin tells
    him to trace the call or he will turn him into a social network
    for teens. Hammer later tells Mr. Fix 2.0 that he has failed to
    trace the blackmailer as Sasha tells Justin to leave Mr. Fix
    2.0 alone. It is soon discovered that Mr. Fix 2.0 was responsible
    for the blackmail and had helped Iron Man expose Hammer as part of
    his revenge for what Justin did to him. After Hammer is dropped from
    his Titanium Man armor, Mr. Fix 2.0 then traps Justin in a Zombie
    Gas chamber which results in Iron Man blasting the console Mr. Fix
    2.0 is in causing Mr. Fix 2.0 to disintegrate.

-   The Paul Ebersol version of Fixer will appear in the anime series
     Disk Wars: The Avengers.

-   Roscoe Sweeney appears in the Netflix TV series Daredevil,
    portrayed by Kevin Nagle. As in the comics, he has Jack Murdock
    killed when the boxer refuses to take a dive in one of the matches.
    Following Jack's death, Sweeney laid low in another country under
    the alias Al Marino. In the episode "Kinbaku", Sweeney returns to
    his house where he is subdued by Elektra in order for Matt Murdock
    to enact revenge. Matt severely beats Roscoe but refuses to
    kill him. Instead, Matt turns him over to the police, much to
    Elektra's disappointment.

-   Paul Ebersol appears in Avengers: Ultron Revolution, voiced by
    Rick D. Wasserman. An ex-employee of Stark Industries fired for
    giving away secrets, Fixer appears in the episode "Under Siege" as a
    member of the Masters of Evil due to his hatred for Iron Man.
    His Techno appearance appears in the episodes "Thunderbolts" and
    "Thunderbolts Revealed" as a member of the Thunderbolts.

Film

-   In the feature film Daredevil, the Roscoe Sweeney version of Fixer
    is renamed FALON (played by Mark Margolis) while the Slade character
    is replaced by Wilson Fisk.

Video games

-   The Paul Ebersol version of Fixer is featured as a boss in the
    Facebook game : Avengers Alliance. He is featured in a
    chapter 3 mission called "RAID-ical Resolution". He is also a
    playable character via earning lockboxes during pvp season 17.

-   Paul Ebersol's Techno appearance appears in Lego 's
    Avengers.

-   The Paul Ebersol version of Fixer appears in : Avengers
    Alliance 2.

Music

-   The industrial band Mentallo and the Fixer derive their name from
    Fixer (Paul Ebersol) and his former partner Mentallo.

