FIXX is a fictional mutant character appearing in American comic books
published by . The character is depicted as originating
from an alternate future. She is a member of X-Factor, X.S.E., and
X.U.E. She first appeared in X-Factor (1st. series)_ #140. Fixx was
created by Howard Mackie.


Fictional character biography

A woman named Fixx exists in Bishop's future timeline. She, along with
Greystone, Archer, and Shard made up a clandestine group of heroes known
as XAVIER'S UNDERGROUND ENFORCERS (X.U.E.) which pursued the ideals of
Charles Xavier in a way differing from the mainstream XAVIER'S SECURITY
ENFORCERS (X.S.E.).

When Shard, a former X.U.E. member who had been transported to the main
 Universe by her brother Bishop in holographic form, became
anchored in Polaris' body following Sabretooth's escape from US
government custody, this allowed her teammates to follow her. Fixx was
able to use her telepathic power to lock on to Shard and psychically
transport herself and her teammates to our time, implanting themselves
in recently deceased host bodies with the mission of preventing their
future from occurring.

One thing that the group did was hunt down a man from their timeline
named Micah—just a child in our time—and attempt to stop him from
becoming the madman who helped kill mutants and who killed Greystone's
mother. Greystone believed that the boy must be killed in order to stop
his tyranny, but Fixx and Archer tried to convince him that it was
unethical to judge a man for a crime he did not yet commit. After
stopping him, the trio decided to join with X-Factor, but their tenure
was short-lived.

Greystone slowly developed temporal insanity, believing that his mission
was accomplished, and he could go home to a better world and be reunited
with his mother, who might theoretically be alive. In an attempt to
return to his own time, Greystone built a flying time machine, but due
to shoddy craftmanship and unsound theories, the craft exploded,
seemingly killing Greystone and Havok, who was attempting to stop him.
With Archer's retirement and Greystone's demise, Fixx is the sole
survivor of the X.U.E., but she may still continue to fulfill their
mission in some way. It is unknown if Fixx retained her mutant powers
after M-Day.


Powers and abilities

Fixx manifests psionic sprites from her mind as small fairy-shaped
psychic projections that channel her powerful telepathic and
psychokinetic abilities. They can relay messages, or cause immense
mental pain by burrowing into the thoughts of another individual. Her
fairies can move objects or repel a physical assault if Fixx
concentrates hard enough. Fixx can also switch her appearance between
"Jane Doe" and herself, but her host was an amnesiac and has no memories
of her own which could normally be accessed (like Archer with his host
body).

