FORBUSH MAN (spelled FORBUSH-MAN in his early appearances), is a
fictional character appearing in American comic books published by
. Originally the mascot of 's Not Brand Echh, he is
the alter-ego of IRVING FORBUSH, a fictional employee of "Marble Comics"
(a parody of ). Forbush was dreamed up in 1955 by  editor
Stan Lee to refer to an imaginary low-grade colleague who was often the
butt of Lee's jokes. In his guise of Forbush-Man, he first appeared in
1967.


Publication history

Irving Forbush was introduced in 's short-lived satirical comic
book Snafu as a mascot. Forbush was given a line in the magazine's
content page where he was credited as Snafu's founder. Another
Forbush family member, Melvin, was mentioned in the letters column
reference, "Losted [sic] by his cousin, Melvin Forbush." During
Snafu's three-issue run, starting in November 1955, the "actual face"
of Irving Forbush was often shown, though this face was of someone not
named Irving Forbush.

Forbush-Man first appeared on the cover of the first issue of the
satirical Not Brand Echh (cover-dated Aug. 1967), drawn by Jack Kirby
and featuring Doctor Doom, the Fantastic Four and the Silver Surfer
cowering in fear as Forbush Man approaches. Forbush-Man is a wannabe
superhero with no superpowers who wears a costume comprising red long
johns with the letter F on the front and a cooking pot with eye-holes on
his head.

Forbush-Man's first major appearance was in the lead story of Not Brand
Echh #5 (Dec. 1967): "The Origin of Forbush-Man", which was "conceived,
created and cluttered-up" by Lee and Kirby. In this story, Forbush-Man's
secret identity is revealed as Irving Forbush, the fictitious office
gofer at Marble Comics. The character has a shrewish maiden aunt (Auntie
Mayhem) who is indirectly responsible for her nephew becoming a
superhero: In a fit of pique, she slams the fabled cooking pot over
Irving's head, inadvertently providing him with the disguise he'd been
looking for. The fictional October 13, 1939, edition of the Daily
Bugle claims an "Irving Forbush" was born on Friday the 13th, his
parents Stan and Jacqueline wanting a daughter instead. Like his
better-known  contemporaries, Forbush-Man triumphs over a number
of super powered adversaries, starting with 'The Juggernut' in Not
Brand Echh #5. All of his victories are purely accidental; lacking
superhuman powers, dumb luck plays a major role in all his adventures.

Forbush-Man's next appearance came in Not Brand Echh #8 (June 1968),
when he applies for membership with the Avengers parody the Revengers,
the S.H.I.E.L.D. parody S.H.E.E.S.H, and finally the X-Men parody The
Echhs-Men. His third major appearance came in Not Brand Ecch #13 (May
1969, the comic's final issue), which finds him in a loose parody of
Silver Surfer #5 (April 1969). Writer Lee himself puts in an
appearance as Marble Comics' "Fearless Leader" in the final two panels.

Continued references

He is mentioned by Spider-man in The Amazing Spider-Man #35 (1966) as
what Spider-Man calls an in-joke.

In the 1978 instructional paperback, How To Draw Comics The 
Way, Chapter Five focuses on drawing a humanoid figure. The
introduction states, "...Most anyone can draw a stick figure. (Even
Irving Forbush!)"

In the early 1990s, when Comics Buyer's Guide begin their annual fan
awards,  came up with its own award for assistant editors as they
were ineligible for the CBG awards. Some ballots, which appeared on
's letters pages, listed Forbush as a choice for top assistant
editor.

Later appearances

During the 1980s, Forbush Man became a staple cast member in the
satirical  title What The--?!_, an ensemble book that
encompassed and poked fun at the  Universe. In 1993, What
The?!--_ published a story chronicling the death of Forbush Man. The
story was a parody of ' "Death of Superman" story arc, and
featured Forbush Man dying in battle against the villain Dumsday, a
parody of 's Doomsday.

Forbush Man appeared in the 2006 series Nextwave: Agents of H.A.T.E._
as a member of "The New Paramounts", a team consisting of Not Brand
Echh characters including The Inedible Bulk. These characters were
either misguided or evil. Forbush Man was willing to hurt others for
mocking his hat. This Forbush Man was apparently killed by Tabitha Smith
after he failed to mind control her (she apparently had no mind).
Nextwave and the Beyond Corporation© exist within the mainstream 
Universe.

Forbush Man later appeared in the 2010 one-shot "Captain America: Who
Won't Wield the Shield." He attacks and injures several 
employees, angered they have turned comics grim and dark. In defense of
the injured people, Forbush is slain. Moments later he returns as a
flesh hungry zombie.


Fictional character biography

According to ' Alternate Universes 2005, Forbush Man is a
native of Earth 665, as opposed to 's regular Earth-616.


Powers

While the original Forbush Man had no superpowers, the Forbush Man who
appeared in Nextwave (who may or may not have been a Broccoli Man) had
the power to project utterly realistic visions into the minds of others
when he removed the cast-iron pot on his head. The hallucinations
typically depicted a reality that was hellish to each victim, slowly
killing them as they struggled against it. This power had no effect on
Tabitha Smith as, in Nextwave, she has no apparent mind at all. It is
also possible that he has powers far beyond this: he cites during his
recruitment to the New Paramounts several occasions on which he claims
to have saved the Earth from certain doom so quickly and efficiently
that nobody realized he'd done anything. He also purports to be "mighty
with women," though whether this is one of his many powers is debatable.
Forbush Man even goes so far as to purport that he is "the greatest
power in human history", although the veracity of these claims is
unverified, and Tabitha Smith defeated him with apparently very little
effort.


Other versions

During the / Amalgam Universe crossover, Irving Forbush was
fused with 's AL to form Al Forbush, proprietor of Lobo the Duck's
favorite diner in the series' parody installment. He wears Forbush Man's
trademark cooking pot with eye holes on his head.


In other media

-   Irving Forbush is referenced in Amazing Spider-Man #35, when the
    Molten Man tells Spider-Man that when he beats him nobody would stop
    him, Spider-Man remarks, "There's always Irving Forbush."
-   Forbush Man is referenced in The Super Hero Squad Show episode
    "Tales of Suspense."
-   In the series premiere of Ultimate Spider-Man, Stan the Janitor
    mentions that he once had an argument with Irving Forbush when he
    accused Stan of treating him like a doormat.
-   Forbush Man is a Bystander Token in the Supernova series of the
    game Heroclix. The token has a low attack power, but high
    defense value.
-   Forbush Man makes an unnamed appearance in the second and third
    books of the Time's Arrow trilogy of Spider-Man and X-Men novels.
-   In the harover book The Bible On Film: A Checklist, 1897-1980
    (Scarecrow Press, 1981), page 214 lists creator and co-author R. H.
    Campbell as being a member of "the Irving Forbush Appreciation
    Society."
-   Irving Forbush is mentioned in Spider-Man: Shattered Dimensions._
-   In the Ultimate Spider-Man episode "Why I Hate Gym", Stan the
    Janitor, caught in a trap, invokes Irving Forbush.

