FORCE is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by . The character first appears in Prince
Namor, the Savage Sub-Mariner #67 (Nov. 1972) and was created by Steve
Gerber and Don Heck.


Fictional character biography

CLAYTON WILSON first appears in the title Prince Namor, the Savage
Sub-Mariner a graduate student at Empire State University working as
a research assistant to scientist Dr. Damon Walters, who develops a
prototype device for creating a protective force field. Wilson steals
the prototype force field generator, creates a battle-suit that
incorporates it, and adopts the alias "Force". The character then goes
on a rampage through New York City until defeated by hero Namor the
Sub-Mariner.

Force retreats and appears in the title Iron Man, having become a
professional criminal, working for crime boss Justin Hammer in exchange
for modifications to his suit. Force and a group of mercenaries hijack
the yacht of industrialist Tony Stark (the alter ego of Iron Man) and
take several hostages. Iron Man, however, tracks the yacht, defeats
Force and his men and rescues the hostages.

Wilson eventually reappears in the title Iron Man, and decides to
reform. Hammer, however, traps the character in the suit and threatens
to kill him if he reneges on the agreement. Force flees and Hammer sends
villains the Beetle, Blacklash, and the Blizzard II to kill him. Iron
Man aids Force in stopping the villains, then lies to the authorities
and advises that Wilson was killed in battle to placate Hammer. Wilson
is provided with a new identity and employment with Barstow Electronics,
a subsidiary of Stark Industries. Wilson makes another brief
appearance in the title Iron Man, impersonating the hero to assist
Stark.

The character makes another appearance in Iron Man as part of the
group the "Iron Legion", subsequently battling the giant robot
Ultimo. Force then appears in the third volume of Iron Man, and
after being blackmailed travels to the country Iraq to aid Stark once
again.

Wilson reappears as Force during the Dark Reign storyline, arresting
several villains employed by the criminal the Hood.


Powers, abilities, and equipment

Clayton Wilson designed and used a powered battle-suit incorporating the
force field projector designed by Dr. Damon Walters. The suit also
provides enhanced strength, flight and can generate an electric current
that can be channelled through the force field when activated. The
character is a graduate student in physics.


In other media

Television

-   Force appears in the Iron Man: Armored Adventures episode
    "Armor Wars". This version is a member of Obadiah Stane's Guardsmen
    and was a former Maggia operative. His armor is a recolored version
    of Stark's Space Armor Design.

