FRANKLIN BENJAMIN RICHARDS is a fictional comic book character appearing
in books published by , usually as a supporting character
in Fantastic Four. He's generally portrayed as a child and as a
budding super-hero, albeit inexperienced.

Franklin is a mutant beyond Omega-Level with vast
reality-manipulating and psionic powers. He is the young son of Mister
Fantastic and the Invisible Woman of the Fantastic Four, the older
brother of Valeria Richards, and the nephew of Invisible Woman's younger
brother, the Human Torch. His parents named him Franklin Benjamin
Richards; his middle name is taken from his godfather Benjamin Jacob
Grimm, the Thing. Franklin's first name comes from Franklin Storm, his
maternal grandfather.


Publication history

Franklin first appears in Fantastic Four Annual #6 (November 1968),
and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby, although he didn't receive
his name until two years later in Fantastic Four #94 (January 1970).
Lee recounted:

Appearing sporadically in the pages of Fantastic Four over the
following fifteen years, Franklin became a member of the pre-teen
superhero team Power Pack as of issue #17 (December 1985) of that title
until its cancellation with issue #62 (February 1991). From November
1994 an older version of the same character (aged for the purposes of a
story) appeared in the pages of 's Fantastic Force until
publication ceased as of April 1996. Between appearances in these other
titles, Franklin has remained a recurring cast member of the Fantastic
Four comic book. From July 2007 until the series' cancellation in
February 2009, an alternate version of Franklin appeared as a cast
member in the  Adventures all-ages Power Pack series of titles.


Fictional character biography

Origin

Franklin Benjamin Richards was born in New York City to Reed and Susan
Richards. Unlike most mutants (whose abilities are initially
activated at the onset of puberty), Franklin began manifesting his
powers while still a toddler due to his parents' radiation-altered
genes. This drew the attention of Annihilus, who sought to use Franklin
as a source for his own resurgence, transferring some measure of the
child's latent power to himself with a gene-based machine, and releasing
Franklin's full potential in the process. Fearing the immediate threat
of his son's powers to the entire populace of Earth and unable to find
another solution in time, Reed Richards shut down Franklin's mind.

During a battle between Ultron-7 and the Fantastic Four, Ultron's energy
output awoke Franklin and again released his powers, resulting in the
sentient robot's defeat. Free of the energies expended in the
confrontation with Ultron, Franklin was seemingly returned to his normal
power level.

Needing someone to watch over Franklin in their absence, Reed and Susan
Richards came to rely on the services of an elderly woman known as
Agatha Harkness, who is also a benevolent witch. Franklin and Agatha
soon developed a familial-like bond, even residing together for a time
at Whisper Hill (Agatha's old residence, which was regularly destroyed
and rebuilt). Eventually, Agatha returned to live in the secret witch
community of New Salem, Colorado, and Franklin moved back in permanently
with his parents and the rest of the Fantastic Four. His powers, no
longer dormant, continued to manifest themselves.

Under the care of yet another guardian, a robot nicknamed H.E.R.B.I.E.,
Franklin unintentionally used his reality warping abilities to age
himself into adulthood. In this form, Franklin was an adept at
molecular manipulation and psionics. Upon realizing his mistake, he soon
restored himself to childhood.

Despite his youth and inexperience, Franklin, a victim of many threats
and abductions, has exhibited great courage in the face of overwhelming
peril. Time and again, he has unknowingly saved innocent lives,
including that of his famous family, from the likes of villainous
perpetrators, such as Blastaar, Norman Osborn, Onslaught,
Nicholas Scratch, and even the all-powerful Mephisto, whom he
temporarily destroyed and later defeated on two separate
occasions.

Attempt at a normal life

[The first appearance of Franklin Richards as the superhero/Power Pack
member Tattletale (Power Pack #17, December 1985), alongside the
similarly-aged Katie Power, who suggests his codename. Art by June
Brigman.]To try to give his son a "normal" life, Reed Richards devised
psychic inhibitors to prevent his powers from being used, but Franklin,
whether by fault or by intent, could still at times bypass the
inhibitors and use his powers, such as projecting an image of himself at
a long distance. At this point he secretly joined a team of pre-teen
superheroes called Power Pack, in which he was code-named "Tattletale".

[A promotional advertisement for the "Fall of the Mutants" storyline
which ran in various  cover dated November 1987. Franklin
Richards is pictured at the far right in his "Tattletale" costume. Art
by Jon Bogdanove.]

Franklin's adventures with Power Pack gained him an enemy in the alien
Zn'rx, and allies and friends in the Kymellian Whitemanes. Franklin was
particularly close to the young Kofi Whitemane, who declared Franklin an
honorary cousin in much the same way as the children of Power Pack had
been adopted as honorary Whitemanes. Franklin also regarded the Power
children and their parents as a sort of surrogate family — his
association with them beginning at a time when he was feeling
particularly distant from his parents at a time when they were living at
Avengers Mansion. During this period Franklin also bonded emotionally
with Avengers associate and manservant Edwin Jarvis, as Jarvis was his
primary caretaker while Franklin stayed at the mansion. His friendship
with the Power children also gave Franklin a taste of life among
siblings, which the lonely Franklin would not experience until much
later when his sister Valeria was born.

The Richards and Power families became fast friends, though neither
family's parents realized that any of the children other than Franklin
were superpowered (though Susan and Reed discovered this later).
Franklin even kept his membership of Power Pack a secret from his own
parents: when he appeared before them in image form (see above) he would
stick to ordinary clothes, only appearing in his Power Pack outfit
before other heroes such as Kitty Pryde.

Franklin even lived with the Power family for a time, when his parents
decided that a superhero headquarters was a dangerous place for a child
to live, and wanted Franklin to spend time in a "normal" family
environment. He returned to his family when Power Pack temporarily left
Earth for the Kymellian homeworld.

Psi-Lord

Franklin was later kidnapped by his time-traveling grandfather Nathaniel
Richards, and replaced with his teenage counterpart, PSI-LORD, who had
been raised by Nathaniel in a dimension outside of time. Franklin, as
Psi-Lord, helped create the short-lived team known as Fantastic Force.
By tapping a stud hidden within the glove of his costume, Franklin was
able to summon battle armor from a pocket dimension; it was designed
specifically to siphon off the full measure of his powers. As such,
Franklin's abilities at this time were limited to telepathy,
precognition, and psionic energy blasts.

Nathaniel eventually revealed that in another possible future timeline,
Franklin Richards would, with Rachel Summers, father a terrible time-and
dimension-traveling supervillain named Hyperstorm. In an effort to
divert the attention of the Fantastic Four, Hyperstorm traveled back to
the precise point in time when Franklin was abducted by Nathaniel
Richards; he returned the child to his parents mere seconds after he was
first kidnapped, thus rendering the Psi-Lord version of Franklin
Richards obsolete in the Earth-616 timeline.

Onslaught

Shortly after these events, Onslaught kidnaps Franklin in order to use
his abilities to reshape reality. To defeat Onslaught, the Fantastic
Four, the Avengers, the X-Men, and several other heroes destroy first
his physical form, and then his psychic form. In the process, Franklin's
parents seemingly die. Franklin displays his true power, singlehandedly
creating the "Heroes Reborn" pocket universe to contain the heroes who
had "died" in that adventure. Some of them are recreated based on
Franklin's memories of them, such as the temporally-displaced teenage
Tony Stark becoming an adult once more while the mutated Wasp is
restored to human form. While his parents are away in the Heroes Reborn
universe, Generation X and Alicia Masters look after Franklin. This
universe comes to be represented by a small, bluish ball which Franklin
carries with him.

Franklin travels with several X-Men to the farm owned by Hank McCoy's
parents. He plays with Artie Maddicks and Leech, both mutant children.
The Celestials recognize that Franklin represents the culmination of
their genetic experiments, that he has power to rival even theirs.
Ashema, one of the Celestials, representing herself as a human, visits
Franklin. Ultimately, Franklin, Ashema and other forces allow the
rightful heroes to return and both universes to remain functioning.

In the wake of Mr. Fantastic's activation of the Ultimate Nullifier to
destroy Abraxas, Franklin loses all his powers in the process of
reforming Galactus and thus becomes a normal child. Shortly
afterwards, Doctor Doom makes a pact with the Haazareth Three to gain
vast magical power. During Doom's attacks upon the Fantastic Four,
Franklin is sucked into Hell by the Haazareth. After the defeat of
Doom, his parents rescue him, but Franklin has a hard time coping with
the traumatic experience of being tormented in Hell. The Thing helps
Franklin make a complete mental recovery by assuring him that, even if
they couldn't always keep him safe, they would never give up on him.

When the Scarlet Witch uses her powers to depower countless mutants,
including Magneto and Professor X, the power lost by Magneto and Xavier
combines and restores Onslaught, whose consciousness still lingered
after his death. Onslaught takes control of both the Human Torch and
Mister Fantastic in an attempt to get Franklin but is interrupted by the
Thing and Invisible Woman.

When Franklin flees to Counter-Earth, Onslaught follows him. The
Avengers assess their new threat which did not exist until Franklin
appeared. After a brief skirmish, the heroes and villains decide to work
together to defeat Onslaught. Rikki Barnes defeats him using a
Fantasticar to send them both through the Negative Zone barrier in the
Fantastic Four's lab, trapping them. Franklin returns home, Barnes finds
herself on Earth-616, and Onslaught is seen floating outside the Area 42
Prison in the Negative Zone.

Secret Invasion

In the beginning of the Skrull strike on Earth, the Skrull Lyja,
impersonating Sue Richards, sends the entire Baxter Building into the
Negative Zone with Franklin, Valeria, and Johnny Storm inside. Franklin
and Valeria team up with Johnny and the Thing to fight the Skrulls.
Benjamin Grimm asks the help of the Tinkerer, who is a prisoner in the
prison for the unregistered villains in the Negative Zone. The Tinkerer
refuses, seeing no reason to help the people who arrested him as he was
taking his granhildren out for ice cream, and sent him to prison
without due process. Franklin and Valeria plead with the Tinkerer. They
strongly remind the old man of his own granhildren. He is moved to
tears, repents and agrees to help, in exchange for his freedom and
reunion with his grandkids.

Dark Reign

During the Dark Reign: Fantastic Four miniseries; Franklin finds
himself along with his sister under siege by Norman Osborn, Venom and a
high number of H.A.M.M.E.R. agents. The siblings were on their own due
to their father's experiment which left him unreachable and the other
members of the Fantastic Four stranded in alternate realities.

Valeria manages to separate Osborn from the rest of the H.A.M.M.E.R.
agents by using a bureaucratic technicality and by having them
underestimate her. Osborn is led into a room where he faces Franklin who
is wearing a Spider-Man mask and calls him a villain. In the next scene,
the two are chased down a hall by Osborn who is getting ready to shoot
them. The Fantastic Four return just in time to protect the
children. Mister Fantastic tells Osborn to leave the Baxter Building
and not to come back. Osborn attempts to shoot Reed, only to be shot in
the shoulder by Franklin. The gun Franklin used is by all accounts, a
simple toy.

On his birthday, Franklin is seemingly attacked by a strange intruder
which is later revealed to be a future version of Franklin himself sent
back through time to deliver a warning to Valeria about an approaching
conflict. In the final pages, it is revealed that the attack by the
adult Franklin was to plant a telepathic suggestion in the mind of his
present-day counterpart, thereby reawakening young Franklin's dormant
mutant powers.

Search for the Invisible Woman

Franklin and his sister contact X-Factor Investigations, led by Madrox
the Multiple Man. They find that their mother has strangely disappeared
and think that their father had something to do with it. According
to the children, Reed Richards had been acting very strange the last
couple of days. The team investigates and find that not only Sue was
trapped, but also Reed, who has been replaced with an alternate version
being mind-controlled by an alternate version of Doctor Doom. X-Factor
find the real Reed in Latveria. X-Factor and the Fantastic Four
battle Doctor Doom and Layla Miller. Doom lets them "rescue" Sue and
tells them all to leave. During the battle in New York, the alternate
Doom/Reed is accidentally killed.

Fear Itself

During the 2011 miniseries Fear Itself Franklin, against his father's
prior wishes, uses his reality-warping powers to heal Ben Grimm and free
him from the possession of an Asgardian warrior general named ANGIR,
BREAKER OF SOULS, into which Grimm had been transformed.

Future Foundation

Franklin is approached by a mysterious stranger, who has been secretly
tutoring him in the use of his powers. The stranger is later
revealed to be a future adult incarnation of Franklin himself, who
reiterates to his young counterpart that his powers must be properly
harnessed for a singular intent: the act of life preservation. In a
confrontation between the Future Foundation and the Mad Celestials of
Earth-4280, Franklin is described by one of the Celestials as a mutant
'beyond Omega classification', and is subsequently attacked with
concussion beams. Franklin repels their attacks.

Upon successfully creating a new future and simultaneously acting as an
anchor for the changes he made in the process following the collapse of
all reality into a single timestream, culminating with the heat death of
everything, the adult Franklin, alongside his sister, a future
incarnation of Valeria Richards, enters the fray in the final struggle
against the Mad Celestials of Earth-4280. He warps the three
Celestials away to the inner sphere of a local gas giant. He then
acquires an orb containing his younger counterpart's powers, which he
stores within his chest. When the Celestials return, the adult Franklin
again confronts them, and destroys them all in a prolonged battle.
In the aftermath, the adult Franklin shares a brief moment with
Galactus. The two discuss the heat death of everything and the
revelation of Franklin's immortality, specifically that he will, a
billion years from now, stand beside Galactus to witness the birth of a
new universe.


Powers and abilities

Franklin is a mutant who possesses the power to warp reality, i.e., to
make any thought or desire come to fruition, even up to a cosmic scale;
conjunctively, he is able to rearrange the molecular structure of
matter. Franklin once subconsciously created his own pocket universe,
encompassing a virtual replica of Earth-616. As a result, several cosmic
entities, including Galactus, Eternity, and Infinity, as well as
Omniversal Guardian Roma and Omniversal Majestrix Opal Luna Saturnyne,
began to take notice of Franklin's tremendous gifts, going so far to
describe him as a "being whom the Celestials felt was on par with
themselves." Two Celestials, Ashema the Listener and Nezarr the
Calculator, were at one time tasked with retrieving Franklin for
evaluation as a new member of the Celestial Host - a group of beings
recognized as "gods" by the Eternals and Deviants.

In addition to reality and molecular manipulation, Franklin has vast
psionic powers that have manifested as telepathy, telekinesis, energy
blasts of concussive force, precognition, and astral projection. Being a
child, Franklin's abilities are restricted to an extent by his limited
control. Moreover, it remains unclear what power levels Franklin will
ultimately achieve as an adult, as several future incarnations from
alternate realities as well as the mainstream  universe have been
shown to vary in power. One such manifestation of Franklin in adult form
was able to destroy two Celestials from Earth-4280 during physical
combat; in the aftermath of their defeat, Franklin's immortality was
strongly implied. The same individual also tapped into the power of his
younger self to resurrect and transform Galactus into his own personal
herald after the devourer of Worlds had been rendered unconscious in
battle against a host of Celestials.

In terms of unrealized potential, Franklin is generally considered to be
the most powerful Earth-bound mutant in the  Universe.


Other versions

Days of Future Past

In the 1981 X-Men storyline Days of Future Past, it was revealed that
in one possible future, Franklin (known as 'SCRAPPER') would be the
lover of Rachel Summers; he would also meet his untimely death at the
hands of Omega Sentinels. In variants of this timeline, Franklin and
Rachel give birth to the nigh-unstoppable villain Hyperstorm, a mutant
who is capable of drawing virtually limitless energy from Hyperspace
itself. Another child Franklin fathers with Rachel (in a reality that
only slightly diverges from Earth-811) is known as Dream Summers. Dream,
a mutant like her parents, demonstrates telepathy/empathy.

The dream-self of the deceased adult Franklin Richards of Earth-811
(seen in the 1990 Days of Future Present crossover) tapped into the
powers of both his younger Earth-616 counterpart and Rachel Summers,
augmenting his own abilities with the near-infinite energy of the
Phoenix Force.

Earth-98

In Fantastic Four: Annual 1998, a version of Franklin is seen where he
aged in real time from his first appearance. He is married to a Wakandan
woman named Zawadi and has a daughter named N'Yami. Franklin is also a
member of the Fantastic Four named Zero Man and had the ability to
access the Negative Zone through a portal that he could create. He had
to wear a special Vibranium headband to help him control his abilities.

Earth X

In Earth X, Franklin Richards curses Namor for killing the Human Torch.
Half of Namor's body is now constantly burning, even underwater.
Afterwards, Franklin takes Galactus' armor and, entering the third stage
of his evolution, becomes Galactus himself. As stated in the story, he
is Galactus as long as no one tells him he isn't. As Galactus, Franklin
Richards saves the Earth by consuming the Celestial growing inside. He
reveals himself to his father, Reed, before leaving the Earth, stating
he will never return. At the end of the story, Reed, after gaining the
cosmic consciousness, states his first task will be to save his son.

Exiles

The Exiles, a group of superheroes taken from several different
realities, traveled to a future Earth where their mission was to stop
Franklin Richards' son from conquering that world. Franklin himself is
not shown in this storyline.

Franklin Richards: Son of a Genius

[|Art by Chris Eliopoulos|thumb|150px|right]

In the out-of-continuity humor series Franklin Richards: Son of a
Genius, Franklin is portrayed as a Calvin-esque troublemaker who can't
resist "playing" with his father's inventions, with disastrous results.
Franklin must then scramble to reverse the effects/clean up after the
results of his "play", with the help of his long-suffering robot nanny
H.E.R.B.I.E. (who essentially plays a Hobbes-esque role), or face
punishment from his parents. The first twelve Son of a Genius
one-shots were drawn by Chris Eliopoulos and co-written by Eliopoulos
and Marc Sumerak. Since then, Eliopoulos has written them solo.

Franklin Richards: Son of a Genius began as a series of back-up
strips, each one appearing in all  books released in a certain
publishing week. The strips were well received by  readership and
the concept was granted a self-titled one-shot, which primarily
reprinted the published strips to date. Subsequent books in the series
have consisted of new material, and they are currently being published
on a roughly quarterly basis. There have been fourteen specials
published so far, and this particular version of Franklin and
H.E.R.B.I.E. has since appeared with Lockjaw and the Pet Avengers in
Tails of the Pet Avengers: Dogs of Summer (July 2010).

1.  Fantastic Four Presents Franklin Richards (Nov. 2005)
2.  Everybody Loves Franklin (Apr. 2006)
3.  Super Summer Spectacular (Sept. 2006)
4.  Happy Franksgiving (Jan. 2007)
5.  March Madness (May 2007)
6.  World Be Warned (Aug. 2007)
7.  Monster Mash (Nov. 2007)
8.  Fall Football Fiasco (Jan. 2008)
9.  Spring Break (May 2008)
10. Not-So-Secret Invasion (July 2008)
11. Summer Smackdown (Oct. 2008)
12. Sons of Geniuses (Jan. 2009)
13. It's Dark Reigning Cats and Dogs (Apr. 2009)
14. April Fools (June 2009)
15. School's Out!_ (July 2009)

House of M

Franklin is mentioned by Emma Frost as being one of her patients since
the death of his parents.

 Zombies

In the  Zombies: Dead Days one-shot (which served as a prequel to
the  Zombies 2005/2006 miniseries) Franklin and his sister Valeria
were suddenly eaten by zombie She-Hulk.

MC2

In the MC2 universe, Franklin is in the Fantastic Five under the name of
Psi-Lord, his powers reduced to telekinesis after a battle with
Hyperstorm. He's also that universe's Nexus Being, someone who
exists in all possible realities, a focus of mystical energies. He has a
friendly relationship with Spider-Girl. They are mutually attracted to
each other until her father, Spider-Man, points out that she is only 15,
several years younger than Franklin. After that, Franklin stops flirting
with her. It was revealed that Franklin recommended Kate Power to
help the Avengers find the powerless Thunderstrike. During
Fantastic Five (volume two) #4, a huge increase in his powers,
triggered when Franklin deliberately exposes himself to cosmic rays to
enhance his powers to cope with the threat posed by the newly returned
Doctor Doom, leaves him with stronger psionic powers and with a blazing
skull for a face, forcing him to wear a containment helmet at all
times.

Power Pack - All Ages Version

In the Fantastic Four and Power Pack miniseries, an alternate timeline
Franklin Richards is promoted a few grades and enrolled in the same
class as Jack Power. Because of persecution as a result of him having
the Richards name, Reed later decides that he should be kept in the
Baxter Building for home schooling, possibly as long as college.
Franklin then runs away with Jack, then proceeds to get captured by
Doctor Doom. Doom switches bodies with Franklin for a short time to
pursue the destruction of the Fantastic Four, leaving Franklin trapped
in Doom's comatose body. When Jack Power undoes the body swap, Franklin
wakes up and immediately leads the Power Pack in sending Doctor Doom to
the Negative Zone.

After this adventure, Julie Power creates a costume for Franklin,
dubbing him the "honorary fifth member". The costume looks like a
standard Power Pack costume, done in orange and having the all-seeing
eye icon of his "Tattletale" costume from the original series. Although
the costume was made of regular materials instead of using the alien
materials that accounts for the special abilities of the other Power
Pack costumes, Franklin's father has modified the "Tattletale" costume
using unstable molecules.

In the Power Pack: Day One miniseries, Franklin is staying with the
Power family, due to the Fantastic Four going on a space mission. During
his stay, Franklin is learning from the Power siblings the origin of how
they became Power Pack.

In the first issue of the Skrulls vs. Power Pack miniseries, Franklin
and the Power siblings were at a bowling alley, when they were attacked
by bounty hunters. While the hunters captured and delivered the Pack to
Patchworld, Franklin managed to return to the Baxter Building to ask his
parents to help rescue them, but instead depended upon the aid from both
the Smartship Friday and his robot nanny H.E.R.B.I.E.

This version of Franklin to date hasn't displayed any powers; he does
have great courage and intelligence. He also has some impressive
high-tech gadgets that Reed and Franklin built together. These save his
life during the Galactic bounty hunter attack.

Franklin, the Power siblings, H.E.R.B.I.E., and Friday eventually reach
the Puzzle Planet and solve the mystery of the planet of origin of
Eternity's Children, as named in an ancient secret prophecy. All the
children do their part with their intelligence and powers to solve the
puzzles, but it is Franklin who ties it all together with his scientific
knowledge and analytic ability.

With the main continuity, the "Son of a Genius" series, and the all ages
version of Power Pack, there are now three different versions (within
the different continuities) of Franklin Richards fighting the Skrull
invasion.

Forever Yesterday

In an alternate reality detailed in New Warriors #11-#13, the Richards
family is part of a resistance movement against the tyrannical Sphinx.
They join with the family of Dwayne Taylor. Despite their age
differences, Franklin and Dwayne are shown as friends. An attack by
agents of the Sphinx leaves all but Dwayne murdered.

Other future incarnations

[Future incarnations of Franklin as appearing in Power Pack #36]In
Power Pack #36 (published in April 1987), Franklin and his friends
battled the giant robot Master Mold. The Master Mold's primary objective
was to eliminate The Twelve, the future leaders of mutant-kind.
Describing Franklin as a mutant entity of the 'ultimate' potential, and
the only mutant ever to develop such power, the machine visualizes
possible future incarnations of the child prior to seeking him out for
annihilation. One image depicts Franklin as a young man clad in a dark
blue suit with a red jacket, yellow boots and gloves. Master Mold refers
to this adolescent version of Franklin as ULTIMAN. Another image shows a
striking figure somewhat older in appearance than Ultiman (closely
resembling the Silver Surfer) with marks upon his face similar to the
'hound scars' commonly associated with Rachel Summers of Earth 811. As
per Master Mold, this adult incarnation of Franklin is simply called
'THE TWELFTH.'

Ultimate 

In Ultimate X-Men/Fantastic Four Annual #1, a young Franklin Richards
is part of a future team of X-Men. It is revealed that in all of the
possible futures, Franklin is Reed (as Nihil) and Sue's son. He is also
revealed to be the host to that timeline's Phoenix force.


In other media

Television

-   Franklin Richards (alongside members of Power Pack) makes a cameo
    appearance in The Super Hero Squad Show episode "Support Your
    Local Sky-Father!" at a playground Thor is opening, appearing in a
    blue T-shirt marked with a "4".

Video games

-   In the game : Ultimate Alliance, Franklin is briefly
    mentioned when speaking to the Invisible Woman in the Hall of
    Warriors on the Asgard level.
-   In the game's sequel, : Ultimate Alliance 2, Franklin is
    seen sleeping alongside his sister Valeria Richards. He is left in
    the care of his father Reed Richards when his mother leaves to join
    the Anti-Registration movement.


Awards

Awards include:

-   2008: Chris Eliopoulos was nominated for the "Special Award for
    Humor" Harvey Award for his work on Franklin Richards

