FREEDOM RING (real name CURTIS DOYLE) is a fictional superhero appearing
in American comic books published by . The character was
created by writer Robert Kirkman. Curtis first appeared in 
Team-Up vol. 3 #20 (July 2006), becoming Freedom Ring in the next
issue. He appeared across the series' storyline "Freedom Ring" for five
issues. The character is depicted as a normal civilian who comes across
a ring that grants him the ability to alter reality.

Kirkman intended Freedom Ring to be an example of a superhero who
demonstrated inexperience with his superpowers, as he felt that most
superheroes quickly adjusting to their powers and having a successful
superhero career did not reflect reality. When asked by a fan about the
number of visibly gay comic book superheroes, Editor-in-Chief of 
Comics, Joe Quesada, also touted the Freedom Ring as 's leading
gay hero. However, in the next issue, the character was killed, leading
to controversy and accusations of homophobia from some comic book
reviewers.

Kirkman defended his writing decision as having "nothing but good
intentions," highlighting his original concept of "an inexperienced hero
who would get beaten up constantly and probably die," claiming that
Freedom Ring's sexuality was merely an attempt to simultaneously write a
well-rounded ordinary male character who happened to be gay. Later,
Kirkman admitted that he regretted killing Freedom Ring due to the
relatively limited number of gay characters in mainstream comics.


Publication history

FREEDOM RING first appeared as a civilian, "Curtis Doyle" in 
Team-Up vol. 3 #20 as part of the five-issue "Freedom Ring"
storyline. The character adopts the Freedom Ring superhero persona in
the next issue. The character is featured in the storyline until
Issue #24, when he is killed in battle. The series was canceled
by Issue #25.


Fictional character biography

After the Master of the Ring story arc in  Team-Up concludes,
Captain America arrives to take the reality-altering ring that the
Ringmaster was wearing into S.H.I.E.L.D. custody. However, A.I.M. sent a
group of soldiers called a M.O.D.O.C. (Military Operatives Designed Only
for Combat) Squad to fight Cap for an unknown reason and Captain America
does not notice when the ring is lost.

The ring is eventually found by a young man, Curtis Doyle, whose friend
Troy calls it a "free, dumb ring". This comment gives Curtis the idea
for his superhero name. When he accidentally creates an ice cream sundae
out of thin air, he discovers that the ring gives him the ability to
alter reality. He runs away terrified, but when he returns, he finds
that the sundae has disappeared without a trace. He calls Troy, and
later, they have a long night of super-power practice.

The next day while Curtis is on a date with Jeffrey, a waiter from a
diner that he frequented, the Abomination attacks nearby and Curtis runs
off to fight him. While fighting Abomination along with Spider-Man and
the X-Men, Curtis was seriously injured. Spider-Man rushed him to the
hospital while the X-Men defeat the Abomination.

Curtis recovers, but is told he will never walk again. Troy helps
him return home, and Curtis uses the ring to restore his legs. Going
after Troy, who just left, he finds that his neighbor is an undercover
Skrull who was sent to monitor the Avengers just before they
disassembled. Losing track of them, the Skrull turns his spy equipment
toward his neighbors. He knows everything about Curtis, and having
decided to become a superhero himself (dubbed the Crusader), asks Curtis
if he wishes to be his partner.

Curtis is unsure, given what happened with the Abomination, but the
Crusader convinces Curtis that he can do it, because if he fixed his
legs, he can make himself stronger and faster, and less reliant on
conjuring up the right item. Curtis agrees, making himself stronger, and
practices with the Crusader for two weeks. In a later battle with
Iron Maniac, who had just defeated Spider-Man and Wolverine and was
currently facing Captain America, Luke Cage and Spider-Woman, Curtis
reveals the source of his power. Though he is able to immobilize the
villain, Curtis does not expect Iron Maniac's armor to expand outwards.
When it does, his ring finger is sliced off and his body is pierced by
the armor multiple times.

Captain America is able to defeat Iron Maniac, but it is too late to
save Curtis, who is dead. Captain America notes that they didn't even
know him and yet he saved them all by buying them time to recover.

The ring is then acquired by Crusader, who utilizes it as a member
of the Initiative during the Skrull Secret Invasion. The ring is last
seen with Crusader as it whisks him away to parts unknown after he is
shot in the head by Skrull Kill Krew member, 3-D Man.


Powers and abilities

[Curtis Doyle in his civilian identity. Art by Andy Kuhn.] Curtis Doyle
originally had no inherent super-powers on his own. However, the
character comes into possession of a ring crafted from a fragment of a
destroyed Cosmic Cube which allows the wearer to alter reality within a
radius of roughly 15 feet (4.6m) around him, giving him a sphere of
reality he can alter.

After his first attempt as Freedom Ring, he altered his physiology to
give himself superhuman strength, speed, stamina and durability.


Robert Kirkman on Freedom Ring's character

Curtis's death was met with some negative reactions, including
accusations of homophobia from gay comic book sites Gay League and Prism
Comics, specifically because Joe Quesada touted him as '
leading gay hero a month prior to his death.

Robert Kirkman commented on the controversy, stating

Kirkman later confirmed his opinion, stating,

