FROG-MAN (EUGENE PATILIO) is a comedic superhero appearing in American
comic books published by .


Publication history

Frog-Man's first appearance was in  Team-Up #121 (September
1982). The character was created by writer J. M. DeMatteis, who later
said he was one of his "all-time favorite" characters.


Fictional character biography

Eugene Patilio was born in Brooklyn, New York, the son of Vincent
Patilio (the supervillain LEAP-FROG). After several defeats by
Daredevil, Iron Man, and Spider-Man, which eventually landed him in
jail, Vincent eventually decided to retire and go straight.

His son Eugene donned his father's costume as the FABULOUS FROG-MAN in
an attempt to be a crime-fighter. However, his crime-fighting career
became essentially a joke. His two major enemy villains are the White
Rabbit, a comedic villainess inspired by the Alice in Wonderland
character, and the Walrus, a dimwitted character who essentially had
the proportionate abilities of a walrus (tough skin and
super-strength).

Frog-Man had a tendency to capture villains simply by dumb luck.
Eugene's inability to fully pilot his automated Frog-Man costume caused
him to wildly bounce around, scoring wins against villains by crashing
into them. This questionable method of fighting supervillains accounts
for his luck in dealing with the Yellow Claw, and Speed Demon.
(Captain America assisted in the battle against the Claw). The White
Rabbit and Walrus later teamed up to get revenge on Frog-Man and went on
a rampage in the city. They not only lured Eugene to them, as the Rabbit
had hoped, but also his father and Spider-Man (who was visiting the
Patilios) and suffered another crushing defeat, with Eugene clumsily
bouncing into the Rabbit once again.

He also participated, along with Spider-Kid and The Toad, in a
short-lived super-team called the Misfits.

Vincent Patilio was very proud of his son, yet at the same time very
worried about him risking his life. He even prevented his son from
joining the Defenders, even when it meant publicly humiliating him by
dragging him home in front of the team and the media.

When Alyosha Kraven, the son of Kraven the Hunter, began collecting a
zoo of animal-themed superhumans, Frog-Man was amongst his captives.

Eugene Patilio was later recruited by the US government as part of the
Fifty-State-Initiative program, as a member of the Kentucky based team,
Action Pack.

During the Secret Invasion storyline, he was revealed to be a Skrull
infiltrator. After the invasion is over, the real Frog-Man is shown
in a support group meeting with the others that had been replaced by
Skrulls.

During the Fear Itself storyline, Frog-Man appears at a meeting held
by Prodigy regarding magical hammers that have crashed into the
earth. He is part of Gravity's team and helps battle Crossbones.
He is later seen with the team during a massive earthquake caused by a
battle between Gravity and Hardball and helps them in their fight
against Thor Girl, who had recovered her designate powers.

During the Spider-Island storyline, Frog-Man witnesses terrorists with
spider powers attacking the United Nations and springs into action,
teaming up with Ms. , Hawkeye, and Jessica Jones against a
spider-empowered Flag-Smasher. After the battle, Frog-Man gains the
grudging respect of Ms. , Hawkeye, and Jessica Jones.


Powers and abilities

Frog-Man has no superpowers, but wears a frog suit that contains
electrical coils on the soles of its flippers which allows him to leap
great distances. The boots' power source is worn on his back like a back
pack. Additionally, the suit has an internal padding which enables
Frog-Man to bounce off objects with little danger.


In other media

Television

-   Frog-Man made a brief appearance in Fantastic Four: World's
    Greatest Heroes episode "The Cure." After the Thing was "cured" of
    his condition, he was a potential recruit as a new member of the
    Fantastic Four. Frog-Man was rejected after accidentally bashing his
    own head off the ceiling during his audition for the team.

