GEORGE WASHINGTON "G. W." BRIDGE is a fictional character appearing in
American comic books published by . He is a former
mercenary and high-ranking agent of S.H.I.E.L.D..


Publication history

G.W. Bridge first appeared in X-Force (vol. 1) #1 and was created by
Fabian Nicieza and Rob Liefeld.


Fictional character biography

Little is known about George Washington Bridge's early youth. He prefers
to call himself "G. W." to avoid any jokes about the actual George
Washington Bridge. A seventeen-year-old G. W. served in the Vietnam
War before later using his military skills to become a highly skilled
mercenary and a part of the Wild Pack, a group of mercenaries gathered
by Cable. Other members included Theodore Winchester (Grizzly), Domino,
Garrison Kane, and Eugene Eisenhower "Ike" Canty (Hammer). In one
mission, Bridge and the others experienced Cable's teleportation
technology, a beneficial but shocking surprise. After several successful
missions, the Wild Pack was hired by Mr. Tolliver, an arms dealer, under
the condition that they changed their name; agents from Silver Sable had
let them know that the name "Wild Pack" was taken. The team renamed
itself Six Pack and went on the mission. The mission turned out to be
disastrous, as they encountered Stryfe, Cable's archenemy. Cable shot
Hammer in order to prevent him from surrendering vital intelligence.
Cable then left using futuristic technology that was unable to carry the
other members of the team. This act convinced Six Pack that Cable
purposely abandoned them. In the ensuing destruction, Kane lost both of
his arms. Bridge, Domino, and Grizzly managed to escape. Kane and Hammer
survived, but were heavily injured. Hammer would use a wheelchair for
the rest of his life, while Kane would receive cybernetic replacements
for the arms he lost.

Joining S.H.I.E.L.D.

G. W. Bridge joined S.H.I.E.L.D. and worked his way up to Commander.
When Cable joined the New Mutants and turned them into X-Force,
S.H.I.E.L.D. asked Bridge to investigate the team. Despite the grudge
Bridge carried against Cable, he still felt that he owed Cable a
warning, but it was ignored. Working with the Canadian Department K,
Bridge formed Weapon P.R.I.M.E., a group of super-beings who all carried
a grudge against Cable. Weapon P.R.I.M.E. included Garrison Kane, now
known as Weapon X, Grizzly, Rictor, Yeti (originally identified as
Wendigo), and Tygerstryke. They attacked X-Force, but found out that
Cable had just left the team. Unwilling to fight his former teammates,
Rictor rejoined the X-Force; and the rest of the team soon fell apart.

While still recovering from the Weapon P.R.I.M.E. battle, Bridge
traveled to Department K in Canada. He met with its leader, Jeremey
Clarke, who would ironically turn out to be a villainous madman himself.
At the time, Clarke was supervising Garrison Kane, who was training with
his new arms. Bridge gave Kane vital information for a mission to bring
Cable down. This mission would end with Kane making peace with Cable.

G. W. Bridge returned to S.H.I.E.L.D. duty. He met with Cable shortly
afterward and after a short fight, the two made peace. Over the next few
years, Bridge would inform Cable and his allies in X-Force and the X-Men
on any mutant-related problems S.H.I.E.L.D. encountered. Bridge warned
Cable about Operation: Zero Tolerance. Bridge unofficially hired Domino
to check in on Danielle Moonstar, a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent who had gone
undercover inside a mutant terrorist group. Her position was threatened
by a Zero Tolerance operation.

When Cable's mutant powers began to increase dramatically, Bridge
started to distrust Cable again and formed a new Six Pack, this time
funded by S.H.I.E.L.D., to investigate Cable. Cable defeated the Six
Pack and convinced several members to take his side, but not Bridge.
Shortly afterward, Cable was defeated by the Silver Surfer.

Bridge and Domino reappeared when they were hired again as mercenaries.
Apparently, Bridge had left S.H.I.E.L.D. at this point.

Rejoining S.H.I.E.L.D.

G. W. Bridge returned to S.H.I.E.L.D. action at the request of Jasper
Sitwell, looking drastically different physically. He also has converted
to Islam. He is contracted to take down Frank Castle, the Punisher.
However, G. W. was unsuccessful in apprehending him, despite cornering
him in close quarters. In light of these events, Bridge resigned from
active S.H.I.E.L.D. status because he believed that he will never have
the freedom under S.H.I.E.L.D. command to use the necessary force to
take Frank Castle into custody. He was immediately re-hired by Sitwell
as an independent contractor, feeling this move would give him the
proper freedom. Recently, Bridge has been seen recruiting Silver
Sable and Domino for a task force against Castle.

The recently resurrected Death Adder and Basilisk hold Bridge's family
hostage to make him tell them where they can find the Punisher. Bridge
is then shot in the head by a resurrected Microchip and killed. The goal
was for Microchip to receive his own son back from the dead; Frank
Castle would receive his family. This actually seemingly works as their
coffins open and what is inside comes out. Frank has the animated bodies
destroyed with Firebrand's fire, claiming that these were not actually
the loved ones in question.


Powers and abilities

G. W. Bridge has no superhuman powers, but is trained in hand-to-hand
combat, the use of firearms, and is a skilled strategist. As a
high-ranking member of S.H.I.E.L.D. he has contacts all over the world
and has access to advanced technology and classified information.


Other versions

MC2

In the MC2 continuity, G. W. Bridge has become the first African
American President of the United States of that universe. He holds a
close relationship to the Vision as a link with A-Next, a future
generation of the Avengers.


In other media

Television

-   G. W. Bridge makes a cameo in the X-Men: The Animated Series
    episode "Time Fugitive Pt. 1". He, War Machine, and Nick Fury are
    shown watching a conference dealing with a virus for which mutants
    are supposedly responsible.

