GAIA, also known as the GUARDIAN OF THE UNIVERSAL AMALGAMATOR, is a
fictional comic book superhero appearing in American comic books
published by . The character has been depicted as possibly
a mutant or extraterrestrial. Created by Larry Hama, she first appeared
in Generation X #37.


Fictional character biography

Not much is known about Gaia's origin besides her having spent thousands
of years chained to the Universal Amalgamator at the end of Time, a
device that would be used to merge all sentient consciousnesses into one
being. Gaia was apparently the safeguard that was supposed to prevent
the Amalgamator from being activated by malicious people. She even
claimed that her entire galaxy was wiped out at one point for her
refusing to activate the Amalgamator.

However, when M-Plate, the synthesis of Emplate and M, tried to have
Synch use his power to tap into Gaia's and activate the Amalgamator,
Everett refused. The Citadel of the Universal Amalgamator began to
crumble around them and Generation X wanted to leave, but Synch went
back, along with Penance, to save Gaia. Banshee thought him lost but
Gaia knew of a secret portal that was hidden underneath the altar that
she had been chained to and—coincidentally—led back near the Academy.
With the Amalagamator destroyed, Gaia was freed from her responsibility
and ran off to live a life that was now her own.

When she was seen next, she had gotten into an accident with a sports
car and had pink hair, probably courtesy of her reality-shaping
powers. The policeman who came to the wreck knew of the Academy, and
suggested that she be put into their hands. She lost some of her
abilities to the Shadow King's telepathic shockwave, and stayed with Gen
X, hoping to sort out that difficulty with their help.

She appeared to have some feelings for Synch, and flirted with him a
lot. Gaia formally enrolled in the Xavier's School for Gifted
Youngsters, but left after a short time, saying that she wanted to
experience Earth, not just learn about it. This announcement came after
a particularly difficult experience with her nascent empathy, and a
conversation with Nate Grey, also a transplant to Earth.

It is unknown if Gaia was one of the 90-95% of mutants who lost their
mutant powers on M-Day due to the Scarlet Witch's tamperings. Since she
is from another dimension she may possibly be immune from her reality
warping powers.


Powers and abilities

Gaia has been shown to have a degree of superhuman strength, limited
invulnerability, telepathy, psychokinesis, and the ability to
draw on an extra-dimensional source of matter and energy in order to
create or reshape anything according to her will. She is capable of
warping reality to a limited degree, although she is largely
inexperienced with this power and its use requires great
concentration. Gaia also appears to be either extremely long lived
or completely immortal as she stated that she visited Earth 600 years
ago and still has the appearance of a teenage girl.

