GAMORA is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by . Created by Jim Starlin, the character first
appeared in Strange Tales #180 (June 1975). Gamora is the adopted
daughter of Thanos, and the last of her species. Her powers include
superhuman strength and agility and an accelerated healing factor. She
also is an elite combatant, being able to best most any opponent in the
galaxy. She has appeared as the occasional love interest of the
superheroes Adam Warlock and Nova, and a member of the group known as
the Infinity Watch. The character played a role in the 2007 crossover
comic book event Annihilation: Conquest, and became a member of the
titular team in its spin-off comic, Guardians of the Galaxy. She has
been featured in a variety of associated  merchandise. Zoe Saldana
plays the character in the 2014 live-action film Guardians of the
Galaxy.


Publication history

The character debuted in Strange Tales #180 (1975), and was created by
Jim Starlin. She returned in issue #181, Warlock vol. 1 #9-15
(1975-1976), and in the 1977 annuals for Avengers and 
Two-in-One. In 1990, she returned in Silver Surfer vol. 3 #46-47. She
had a minor role in Infinity Gauntlet #1-6 (1991) and co-starred in
Warlock and the Infinity Watch #1-42 (1992-1995). She was also
featured in the Infinity War (1992) and Infinity Crusade (1993)
crossovers. After appearing in Infinity Abyss #1-6 (2002),
Annihilation: Ronan #1-4 (2006), Annihilation #1-6 (2006) and Nova
vol. 4 #4-12 (2007-2008), Gamora costarred in Guardians of the Galaxy
vol. 2 #1-25 (2008-2010). She played a minor role in The Thanos
Imperative #1-6 (2010).

The character, along with the other Guardians, appears in Avengers
Assemble issues #4-8 (2012). She will star in Guardians of the Galaxy
vol. 3, a part of the  NOW! relaunch.


Fictional character biography

Gamora is the last of her species, the Zen-Whoberis, who were
exterminated by the Badoon (in her original timeline, her species was
exterminated by the Universal Church of Truth). Thanos found the child
and decided to use her as a weapon. Gamora was raised and trained by
Thanos to assassinate the Magus, an evil alternate version of Adam
Warlock. Thanos showed her little kindness during her childhood, but
Gamora was very loyal to the man who promised her the opportunity to
avenge the death of her family. Gamora became very proficient in martial
arts, earning the nickname _"The deadliest woman in the whole galaxy"_.
When she was a teenager, Thanos took her on a trip to Tartoonla #7.
Gamora disobeyed Thanos's orders, and due to this came into conflict
with a group of thugs. She was greatly outnumbered, and despite her
skills she was defeated and then raped by the assailants. Thanos found
her half dead, and in turn murdered all of her assailants and restored
her to health, cybernetically enhancing her to superhuman levels.

As an adult, Gamora was sent as an assassin against the Universal Church
of the Truth, quickly becoming feared by its agents, the Black Knights.
She exacted revenge for the genocide of her race by killing every member
of the church involved before the event actually occurred. Gamora met
and teamed up with Adam Warlock, who wanted to stop his older
version. She even managed to get close to the Magus but failed her
assassination in the last second. Together with Warlock, Pip the Troll
and Thanos, Gamora fought to escape the Black Knights of the Universal
Church of Truth and Magus's Death Squad. She was then assigned
by Thanos to protect Adam Warlock, but she became suspicious of Thanos's
plans, and was then attacked by Drax the Destroyer.

Eventually the Magus was defeated, but Thanos revealed himself as an
even greater threat. Gamora aided Captain Mar-Vell, Drax, and the
Avengers against Thanos. Gamora and Pip tried to prevent Thanos from
destroying all life in the universe. Gamora attempted to slay Thanos,
but he mortally wounded her, and destroyed Pip's mind. Adam Warlock
found them, and Gamora warned Adam of Thanos's plans, and Adam absorbed
their souls into his Soul Gem. When Adam Warlock died as well, his
spirit was reunited with that of his friends in "Soulworld" within the
Soul Gem.

Infinity Watch

[Gamora (upper right) on the cover of Warlock and the Infinity Watch
#8 (September 1992), with Thanos and Moondragon. Art by Tom Raney and
Terry Austin.] Inside the Soul Gem was Soulworld, a place where Gamora,
Pip and eventually Adam Warlock himself lived at peace. Other beings who
had been absorbed by the Soul Gem, such as Kray-Tor and Autolycus, also
lived in peace with former enemies.

Gamora met the Silver Surfer when he traveled to "Soulworld", and also
battled Drax the Destroyer.

When Thanos managed to obtain all the Infinity Gems, forming the
Infinity Gauntlet, Adam Warlock decided that he must be stopped. Warlock
led Gamora and Pip the Troll out of Soulworld into the real world. Their
souls took over the bodies of three humans, who had recently died in a
car crash. Gamora thus returned to the corporeal world by taking
possession of the body of Bambi Long, whose body then began transforming
into a duplicate of Gamora's original body. However, Gamora was soon
erased from existence by Thanos when he erased half the population in
the universe. When Nebula claimed the Gauntlet from Thanos, Gamora
returned to existence.

Warlock now had the Infinity Gauntlet, giving him near omnipotence.
Gamora and Pip persuaded Doctor Strange to help them find and stop
Warlock, who was going mad with power. The Living Tribunal
intervened and Warlock divided the Infinity Gems among several
guardians, known as the Infinity Watch. Gamora received the Time Gem,
but was incapable of consciously using it, though it did give her
sporadic precognitive dreams and visions. Gamora had become
romantically interested in Adam, but Adam did not respond to her. In an
argument over the Infinity Watch member Maxam, Gamora left the Infinity
Watch and the Time Gem behind. She returned to work as a mercenary until
Adam Warlock approached her again. They continued to travel together and
eventually Adam reciprocated her love. Adam and Gamora remained in a
pocket dimension to raise the cosmic being known as Atleza.

Annihilation

Gamora later reappears in the pages of Ronan, having left the company
of Adam Warlock and settled on the world Godthab Omega as leader of a
group of female warriors called The Graces, where her mind has been
altered by Glorian. She is intent on re-establishing her reputation as
the deadliest woman in the universe and now wields a powerful blade
known as Godslayer. At one point, she is seen reclining on a
'throne' made of corpses. She joins the United Front, using her skills
to launch quick counterattacks against the Annihilation Wave. She
engages in a sexual relationship with the United Front's leader,
Nova.

During the Phalanx's invasion of the Kree home-world following the
Annihilation War, Gamora is assimilated as a "select" of the hive mind.
They dispatch her to apprehend Nova after he flees the planet. She's
later freed by Nova and the Technarch Tyro, but left in severe distress,
longing again for the sense of companionship brought by the Phalanx, and
continuing to adopt her Phalanx mannerisms.

She joins the new Guardians of the Galaxy.

Gamora was taken prisoner by Magus when he faked the death of himself
and several other Guardians. She was rescued by Star-Lord
and played a minor role in the war with the "Cancerverse."

She later appears on Earth to aid the Avengers against Thanos.

During the Original Sin storyline, Gamora was seen with Moon Knight
and Winter Soldier's group when they do their investigation on who
murdered Uatu the Watcher.


Powers and abilities

Gamora received treatments from Thanos that enhanced her speed,
strength, agility, and durability to rival Adam Warlock's (to better
slay the Magus, his evil future self). Thanos also helped her become a
formidable hand-to-hand combatant, trained in the martial arts
techniques from various planets, in the uses of the known weaponry of
the Milky Way Galaxy, and stealth techniques. She is also a highly
skilled gymnast and assassin, and formerly possessed a telepathic link
to Thanos. She uses a wide variety of weaponry, most notably a dagger
whose unknown properties made it capable of slaying even beings of such
immense power as Thanos and the Magus.

In the pages of Infinity Watch, it is revealed that Gamora had been
cybernetically enhanced to have superhuman strength, speed, and a rapid
healing ability. Gamora's strength and speed were further enhanced
by Adam Warlock when they returned from Soulworld.

Gamora is one of the most skilled martial artists in the 
Universe. She is capable of defeating opponents who possess superhuman
strength and durability that far surpass her own, and she has defeated a
military platoon containing dozens of combat-trained men in only a few
minutes. She has learned to paralyze or kill opponents using vital point
strikes directed at certain nerve clusters. Although skilled in the use
of most conventional weapons, she prefers to use knives and swords.

While Gamora was with the Infinity Watch, she possessed the Infinity Gem
called the "Time Gem". The gem was mentally linked to her, giving her
the potential power to control time. She said that she did not know how
to employ its powers and preferred not to use it. While she possessed
the Time Gem, Gamora was prone to precognitive dreams and visions,
though she had no conscious control over them.


In other media

Television

-   Gamora is featured in the Silver Surfer episodes "Learning Curve:
    Part Two", "Antibody", and "Radical Justice". She was initially
    voiced by Mary Long, and later by Alison Sealy-Smith.
-   Gamora appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man cartoon series, voiced
    by Nika Futterman. In the episode "Guardians of the Galaxy", she is
    seen as a member of the Guardians of the Galaxy. In the episode "The
    Return of the Guardians of the Galaxy", Gamora was seen recuperating
    on the Guardians of the Galaxy's spaceship when they land on Earth
    at the time when Titus leads the Chitauri into targeting
    Nova's helmet. When she recovers in time to help fight Titus's
    forces, she voiced her disdain that they had to land on Earth. After
    Titus was defeated and the remaining Chitauri escape, Nick Fury was
    displeased that Gamora showed up on Earth again when she said that
    she wouldn't return. Gamora stated 'I lied' and then left with the
    Guardians of the Galaxy with Titus in their custody.
-   Gamora appears in Avengers Assemble, initially reprised by Nika
    Futterman (in "Guardians and Spaceknights") and later voiced by
    Laura Bailey (in "Widow's Run").
-   Gamora appears in the Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H._ episodes
    "It's a Wonderful Smash" and "Guardians of the Galaxy", where Nika
    Futterman reprises her role.
-   Gamora appears in  Disk Wars: The Avengers episodes 24 and
    25, voiced by Junko Kitanishi.
-   Gamora appears as one of the leads in the 2015 Guardians of the
    Galaxy animated series, voiced by Vanessa Marshall.

Film

-   Gamora makes a non-speaking cameo appearance in the animated
    direct-to-video film Planet Hulk. She was seen as an audience
    member in the Sakaar arena.

[Zoe Saldana as Gamora in a character poster for the 2014 film
Guardians of the Galaxy.]

-   Zoe Saldana plays Gamora in the  Studios film Guardians of
    the Galaxy, which was released on August 1, 2014. After
    her family was killed by Thanos when she was a child, she was
    tortured, adopted by Thanos and raised as an assassin, only to rebel
    against him when she learned of his deal with Ronan the Accuser to
    destroy planet Xandar in return for the Kree giving him an orb.
    Attempting to claim the orb to sell it to the Collector so she can
    get as far as she can from her adopted father, Gamora allies with
    the other Guardians to escape prison. But after Ronan claims the
    orb, revealed to contain an Infinity Stone, Gamora decides to fight
    alongside the Guardians to reclaim it and stop Ronan despite the
    odds against them, stating that, after living among enemies for
    years, she would be glad to die beside friends. After saving Xandar,
    Gamora was cleared of her previous crimes.

Video games

-   Gamora appears in Lego  Super Heroes, voiced by Danielle
    Nicolet.
-   Gamora is a playable character in the Facebook game :
    Avengers Alliance.
-   Gamora is playable in the video game Disney Infinity:  Super
    Heroes and Disney Infinity 3.0, voiced by Nika Futterman.
-   Gamora is a playable character in the game : Contest of
    Champions.
-   Gamora is a playable character in : Future Fight.

Toys

-   Gamora was featured in the Classic  Figurine Collection in
    2012. Her number in the series is 189.
-   A Gamora figure is part of the  Legends line based on the
    Guardians of the Galaxy movie.

