GATEWAY is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books
published by . The character has been depicted as an
Australian mutant with the ability to teleport objects and people from
one location to another. He is considered an unofficial member of the
X-Men.


Publication history

Gateway first appeared in Uncanny X-Men #229 (May 1988), and was
created by Chris Claremont and Marc Silvestri.


Fictional character biography

Much of Gateway's past remains a mystery to this day, including where
exactly he was born and even his name. He is an Aboriginal who appears
to have grown up in the Outback.

He serves the criminal group the Reavers in repayment for an undisclosed
favor they did him. As extra assurance of his loyalty, they threaten to
destroy an Aboriginal holy place if he betrays them. They call him
"Gateway" in reference to his ability to create gateways between two
points in space. Some time later, the X-Men appear in the Outback and
attack the Reavers' headquarters. Though Gateway helps the Reavers
Skullbuster, Bonebreaker, and Pretty Boy escape, the X-Men realize he is
not a Reaver.

The X-Men take up residence in the Reavers' former hideout, and Gateway
begins voluntarily using his powers to assist them. Initially, since he
seems unable or unwilling to speak, Psylocke uses her telepathic powers
to communicate to Gateway where the X-Men wish to go. However, they
soon realize he always knows their desired destination without being
told. The X-Men eventually go back to the United States, and are
discovered by the rest of the world to be alive, and Gateway's close
association with them ends.

More recently, he appears at the Xavier Institute in Massachusetts,
where Generation X is training, with a young girl. When he encounters
Banshee, he simply speaks the word, "Penance", which is assumed to be
the girl's name. Gateway would continue to appear sporadically around
Generation X for some time, often in the presence of the fused St. Croix
twins Nicole and Claudette, with whom he apparently had a
teacher-student relationship.

Gateway appears briefly to Storm's X-Treme X-Men team, shortly after the
death of Psylocke, and reveals that he is the ancestor of Bishop and
Shard.

He is one of the mutants to have retained his powers after the M-Day.

It is revealed to Iceman and Cannonball that Gateway was one of the
targeted mutants the Marauders were killing, along with Cable, Vargas
and The Witness due to his powers giving him the ability to see into the
future. The Marauders are later seen reporting to Mister Sinister to
have killed Gateway, the Witness and Vargas. Gateway survives the
assassination attempt and becomes the teacher of Eden Fesi, a young man
with the power to manipulate reality.

In Uncanny X-Force #27, Fantomex is murdered by Skinless Man and this
severs the connection between him and Ultimaton, the guardian Weapon XV
who watched over The World and helped raise Evan. Ultimaton returns to
his basic sentinel programming to kill all mutants and snaps Gateway's
neck before exploding into a nuclear inferno, destroying Cavern X.
Psylocke is able to use her telepathic powers to allow Gateway to create
one last portal before dying and save the X-Force.


Powers and abilities

Gateway is a mutant with teleportation and psychic abilities.

Gateway creates wormholes which allow travel through space, time and
dimensions. He opens these gateways by whirling his bullroarer over his
head. The gateways can be used for both observation and transport. No
limits have been shown to Gateway's teleportational range or the mass he
can transport. He has, for example, transported the X-Men from Australia
to the United States and back using his powers, as well as transporting
them trans-dimensionally to another Earth. He also opened up gateways to
the past.

Gateway is additionally able to enter people's dreams. There he can
directly interact with the elements of the dream, and even pull
other people into the dream.

Gateway also possesses psionic abilities that allow him to communicate
with telepaths. Gateway once spoke to the telepathic Generation X member
Chamber psionically, as well as regularly communicating psionically
with the St. Croix twins, then disguised as their older sister M.

It has also been implied that he possesses total recall or eidetic
memory, as it was revealed in the alternate timeline of the Age of
Apocalypse that his time-space manipulating powers allow him to be
virtually omniscient, as he is described as "the repository of the
knowledge of humanity, the living index of every hard earned scrap of
information gleaned in our ascent from mindless savagery."


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

In the Age of Apocalypse, Gateway spends most of his time on Wundagore
Mountain, trying to physically absorb any and all knowledge in
audio-visual format from hundreds of televisions and computers using his
powers to slow time and warp space before the forces of Apocalypse
destroy everything. Weapon X travels to Gateway's home to recruit him in
the effort to deliver a crushing blow to Apocalypse's North American
forces. Gateway, who is very talkative in this reality, agrees to listen
after his bodyguard, Carol Danvers, sacrifices herself in a battle
against Donald Pierce. Gateway finally agrees to lead the attack
force when he is confronted with the holographic image of a dying
sixteen-year-old victim of one of Apocalypse's Infinites. He was
later captured and imprisoned in the mysterious floating city known only
as The Sky. Gateway was eventually rescued by the combined efforts
of the Amazing X-Men and the Uncanny X-Force team but is later reported
by the AoA version of William Stryker to have been killed in action.

Civil War: House of M

In the House of M universe, Gateway is briefly seen helping Magneto
and his followers overthrow Genosha's current rulers by teleporting his
forces to the country.


In other media

Video games

-   Gateway has a small role in the game X-Men Legends. The
    Brotherhood of Mutants were forcing Gateway to make a portal to the
    equator so they make it to the teleporter to Magneto's lair. Gateway
    then helped the X-Men chase after the Brotherhood.
-   Gateway makes an appearance in  Heroes. He appears at the
    Xavier Institute, allowing the player to replay former Chapters of
    the game.

