GELDOFF is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by . The character first appeared in the Ultimate
 Universe's Ultimate Spider-Man #40 (July 2003) written by Brian
Michael Bendis with art from Mark Bagley. Geldoff was brought into
Earth-616 by Dan Slott and Christos N. Gage in Avengers: The
Initiative #8 (February 2008) where he was given the code name PROTON.


Fictional character biography

Geldoff was a Latverian orphan who was experimented on in the womb.
While drunk at a party, Geldoff blew up random cars with his powers.
Aware of Geldoff's rampages, Spider-Man confronted the youth, denouncing
his irresponsible behavior. When police arrived, Spider-Man made to
leave, and Geldoff clung on to the back of his costume as Spider-man
swung away.

Spider-Man again tried to make Geldoff realize how irresponsible he had
been. Spider-Man tried to convince him to use his abilities to help
people, but Geldoff couldn't see why. When Spider-Man paused to foil a
robbery in a shop below, Geldoff blew up a vehicle outside the shop,
injuring those inside indiscriminately. Geldoff believed he had
performed a good deed, and was shocked when an enraged Spider-Man
attacked him. Geldoff angrily threatened to use his powers directly on
the hero, but was interrupted by the arrival of the X-Men. Confronted by
the mutants, Geldoff fainted.

Geldoff was taken back to their mansion for examination. Awaking in a
panic en route, Geldoff blew out the side of the plane. Later, at the
mansion, Professor Xavier telepathically sedated Geldoff and determined
his experimental origins. Horrified, Xavier decided to present Geldoff
to the scientific organizations and the United Nations as proof of
immoral and illegal genetic research. Spider-Man headed home, but not
before the woozy Geldoff apologized for threatening him.


Powers and abilities

Geldoff can generate and discharge explosive energy balls. How this
power effects living tissue is unknown, as he has yet to use it on
anything organic. Geldoff himself seems immune to the energy. His
Earth-616 counterpart has the same powers.


Other versions

Earth-616

[Earth 616's Proton (Geldoff)
Art by Stefano Caselli.] Geldoff was introduced into Earth-616 (core
 Universe) by writers Dan Slott and Christos N. Gage along with
artist Stefano Caselli, as a Fifty State Initiative recruit in
Avengers: The Initiative #8 (February 2008) who arrives in the Camp
Hammond training facility during the issue. Geldoff is seen in the
following issue using the codename PROTON during a combat training
exercise when MVP clone KIA attacks. In the aftermath of the "Killed In
Action" storyline, Proton is one of the recruits who presents a deceased
Dragon Lord's ashes to his family.

Making his first appearance outside Avengers The Initiative, Proton is
shown fighting a Skrull invasion of New York City in Secret Invasion
#3. He is one of the characters who are shown to be killed during this
issue, a scene later repeated in Avengers: the Initiative #16. Secret
Invasion lead writer Brian Michael Bendis commented on the death of
Proton by saying that he had asked Dan Slott which character he could
kill off, and stated that Slott had built characters for this exact
purpose.

Inhuman

Another, alternate version of Geldoff named GELDHOFF (also created by
Brian Michael Bendis) later appears during Inhumanity. He is
introduced as a Latverian teenager visiting the U.S. as part of a
student exchange programs, and begins to manifest his dormant Inhuman
heritage after being exposed to the Terrigen Mist. After a brief scuffle
with the X-Men, he is kidnapped by Monica Rappaccini of the A.I.M
organization.


In other media

Video games

-   In the Ultimate Spider-Man, at a side of the Midtown High School's
    major stairs is written Geldoff Rules!!!_.

