GENIS-VELL, also known as LEGACY, CAPTAIN , and PHOTON, is a
fictional superhero turned supervillain appearing in American comic
books published by . He is depicted as the son of Mar-Vell
of the extraterrestrial Kree Empire, who was the first character to be
known as Captain  in the  Universe. Genis-Vell would become
the third to carry the name.


Publication history

Genis-Vell first appeared in Silver Surfer Annual #6 (1993) using the
codename of "Legacy". He appears in various  titles in 1994 and
1995, primarily Silver Surfer and the Cosmic Powers miniseries. He
starred in Captain  (vol. 3) by writer Fabian Nicieza and artist
Ed Benes with an initial publication date of December 1995. The series
was abruptly canceled after only six issues; the unpublished issues
#7-12 were later summarised by Nicieza in a fill-in issue (#14) of the
next Captain  (vol. 4) series in 2000.

Legacy appeared in Avengers Unplugged #5 (June 1996). After a single
appearance in Silver Surfer later that year Genis-Vell wouldn't appear
for another two years, when he was included in a new Warlock title for
four issues. An appearance in the Avengers Forever miniseries led to a
second Captain  series featuring Genis-Vell starting in the fall
of 1999. The numbering would last for 35 issues, until October 2002.

In 2002  launched the U-Decide campaign in an attempt to bolster
sales on several comics. Captain  was renumbered to issue number
one, and Peter David, its writer, took the book in a new direction.
Captain  vol. 5 was canceled with issue #25 in 2004 due to low
sales. Peter David was given the chance to resolve the plot in a single
issue.

Genis-Vell joined the Thunderbolts in issue #82 and was killed by Baron
Helmut Zemo in issue #100 (vol 1) (May 2006).


Fictional character biography

Birth and early life

After the death of Mar-Vell (Captain ), his lover Elysius decides
to have a son. As one of the Eternals living on Titan, she uses the
advanced technology of her race to impregnate herself with some of
Mar-Vell's genetic material. Elysius seeks to protect her new son,
Genis-Vell, from Mar-Vell's powerful enemies by taking him to a distant
planet. There, she artificially ages him and implants false memories in
his brain, making him believe that he had a natural childhood and that
he is the son of Starfox.

Elysius like her son was created artificially. Elysius was created by
the Titan computer ISAAC which had been corrupted by Thanos.

Avengers Forever (the Destiny War)

[Genis-Vell as Legacy. Silver Surfer Annual #6.
Cover art by Ron Lim.|right|180px|thumb]

When the Destiny Force resurfaces in Rick Jones for a second time (the
first time occurring during the Kree-Skrull War), it triggers a
time-spanning conflict known as the Destiny War. A motley crew of
Avengers are gathered. Among them is a future version of Genis, now
known as Captain , eventually revealed to have been selected
because of the role his interaction with Rick Jones would play in
shaping the final outcome of the storyline. At the climax of the Destiny
War and with Rick Jones' life in jeopardy, Genis recreates the Nega-Band
connection with Rick in order to save him. After the war, Rick returns
to the current day and the Genis of the present finds himself
unwillingly bonded with Jones, a process which triggers his latent
Cosmic Awareness.

Bonded

Rick and Genis spend a considerable time adventuring together, in an
arrangement somewhat reminiscent of the one that existed between Genis'
father, Mar-Vell, and Rick years before. During their time together,
Mar-Vell and Rick exchanged places with each other between the regular
universe and the Negative Zone and could hear each other's thoughts
unaided.

Genis-Vell and Rick, however, alternate between the Microverse and
the regular  Universe and can not only hear each other's thoughts
unaided but can also see each other in reflective surfaces or as red
ghostly visions.

Whereas Mar-Vell and Rick formed a strong friendship during their time
together, Genis-Vell and Rick have a much harder time getting along.
Genis' alien (and immature) perspective make him unfathomable to Rick's
jaded-sidekick sensibilities. Their ability to see and hear what the
other is experiencing lead to awkward situations with Rick's wife, Marlo
Chandler, and Genis' many amorous partners. Eventually, however, they
become good friends.

Insanity

Genis' inability to control his Cosmic Awareness results in insanity.
After a string of irrational adventures, Genis destroys the universe at
the behest of Entropy and Epiphany. The universe is recreated with a
Last Thursdayism effect on the universe's population, although with
several alterations. No one remembers Genis' insanity, and he has an
adult sister named Phyla-Vell. Although he swears to do good throughout
the universe, a hallucination of Epiphany tells him that he is still
insane.

Genis sets up an office for his superhero activities on Hyperion. Phyla
arrives to mock his efforts, but they are interrupted when a future
version of Marlo attacks them. Genis travels through time to find out
why Marlo became a villain, and hopefully prevent it. Genis learns that
his son (who has not yet been born in Genis' timeline) is evil and plans
to use both Marlo and Genis to trigger a near-universal extinction
event. Unable to overcome his son in battle, Genis defeats him by
choosing to kill his son as an infant (an event still in his future). By
making the decision, his adult son fades away. Genis returns to the
present, suffering great anguish from his choice.

Genis was separated from Rick by the cosmic entity Expediency.

Photon and the New Thunderbolts

[Genis as Photon (upper right) battling Baron Zemo. Cover to
Thunderbolts #100. Art by Tom Grummett.] Genis travels to Earth and
joins the Thunderbolts. During this time, he develops an interest in
Songbird. The manipulations of the Purple Man cause Atlas to attack
Genis in a rage, apparently killing him and throwing his body into the
Hudson River. Though Genis would have recovered on his own, former
Thunderbolt Baron Zemo uses a pair of alien moonstones to form a cocoon
of energy, feeding him energy from the beginning and end of the universe
to speed his recovery. When he emerges, he has absorbed the Nega-Bands
into his body.

Genis' subsequent adoption of the name "Photon" causes him to quarrel
with Monica Rambeau, who had also called herself "Photon" and "Captain
." In the end, Genis is allowed to use the name "Photon" and
Monica decides to use the codename "Pulsar".

However, Zemo realises that his mistake of siphoning energy from the
beginning and end of time created a link between Genis and the universe
that threatens to end existence. Zemo explores all future timelines with
the moonstones, but fails to find a way to save both Genis and the
universe: In every possible future timeline, Genis destroys the
universe. Genis is aware of this, but keeps trying to tune his cosmic
awareness in order to find a way to prevent this from happening.
Finally, in a fight with Zemo, Genis is defeated. Zemo traps Genis in a
moment in time. He then uses a combination of Blackout's Darkforce
powers and the moonstones to separate Genis into individual pieces,
trapping them in separate, far-off parts of the Darkforce Dimension so
that they cannot be reunited.


Powers and abilities

Due to his Titanian Eternal mother, Genis is far more powerful than his
father, although he still needs the Nega-Bands to make full use of his
abilities. He was able to go toe-to-toe with King Thor, a more powerful
incarnate of Thor with Odin's powers. His powers were also increased
further when he merged with his future versions. His energy projection
is so vast that he was able to kill the cosmic entity Eternity. He was
even able to help Eternity's son Entrophy in restarting the universe -
616.

Initially, he only uses the Nega-Bands for flight, energy siphoning,
energy blasts, and transportation to and from the Negative Zone. He is
also able to augment his strength beyond 15 tons to the point where he
was able to hurt the Maestro Hulk or Drax the Destroyer. After bonding
with Rick, his latent Cosmic Awareness, inherited from his father, is
activated. His link to another dimension is redirected from the Negative
Zone to the Microverse. In the comic New Thunderbolts #6 it is revealed
that he can revive himself from certain death. He was also able to give
the Punisher insight into his future which in turn had Castle in tears.
It is later revealed that he can exist in the past, present and future
of multiple realities at the same time, this allows him to open portals
to different timelines.

Originally, he can focus his cosmic awareness, allowing him to realize
exactly what he needs to know at a particular time. When his powers
grew, however, he is driven mad by the vast scope of his awareness,
despite this he was an omniversal level telepath. While insane, he
returns from the dead, raises Rick Jones from the dead, controls other
dead bodies, creates holograms, empowers an alien serial killer, and
survives a combined assault from multiple alien spacefleets.

After Zemo accidentally links him to other areas of time, Genis absorbs
the Nega-Bands and develops teleportation powers that could transport
him through both time and space.

Photon's fellow Thunderbolt, Dr. Chen Lu, the Radioactive Man, theorises
that Genis could control the photons of which everything is composed,
implying large scale reality altering powers.


In other media

Video games

-   Genis-Vell appears as a PSP exclusive character in : Ultimate
    Alliance voiced by Roger Rose. Mar-Vell serves as an
    alternate costume.

Toys

-   Toy Biz produced two Genis-Vell variants of the  Select
    Captain  action figure, one depicting him in Kree Armor and
    the other in his Captain  costume.
-   Bowen Designs produced a full size statue of Genis-Vell (as Captain
    ): sculpted and designed by the Kucharek Brothers in December
    2007 limited to 500 (Website Exclusive) Pieces and a mini-bust:
    sculpted by Randy Bowen in July 2002 limited to 3500 pieces.
    Prototype painted by John A Ficchi.

Chaos War HeroClix #027 (
http://www.heroclixworld.com/hcw/Articles.aspx?ID=407A&P=6 )


Collected editions

A number of the series featuring Captain  have been collected into
trade paperbacks:

-   Captain : First Contact (collects Captain  (vol. 3)
    #0-6, 160 pages, August 2001, ISBN 0-7851-0791-6)
-   Captain  (vol. 4):
    -   Nothing to Lose (collects #1-6, 136 pages, June 2003,
        ISBN 0-7851-1104-2)
    -   Coven (collects #7-12, 136 pages, October 2003,
        ISBN 0-7851-1306-1)
    -   Crazy Like a Fox #13-18, 136 pages, May 2004,
        ISBN 0-7851-1340-1)
    -   Odyssey (collects #19-25, 160 pages, November 2004,
        ISBN 0-7851-1530-7)

