The GHOST is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by . He originated as one of Iron Man's foes, and
appeared as a member of the Thunderbolts during the "Dark Reign" and
"Heroic Age" eras.


Publication history

The Ghost first appears in Iron Man #219 and was created by David
Michelinie and Bob Layton. Originally portrayed as a supervillain, the
character was later developed into an anti-hero figure.

He has appeared as a regular character in Thunderbolts since issue
#144, and has remained with the team since the title transitioned into
Dark Avengers beginning with issue #175.


Fictional character biography

Very little is known about the identity of the Ghost. He claims to have
been an IT researcher at one time, and to have been made into what he is
by corporate greed. The Ghost is an anticapitalist saboteur who seeks to
destroy various political and economic institutions he views as
oppressive, apparently being most interested in those dealing with
advanced technology and surveillance. He has, at times, hired his
services out to corporations and other organizations, such as Norman
Osborn's Thunderbolts, that wish to destroy rival groups, but invariably
plans to turn on his own employers and topple them as well.

Origin

As the Ghost himself told Moonstone, he once worked as both a programmer
and an engineer at a rising IT company called Omnisapient. Impressing
the board of directors with his technological prowess and genius
intellect, he quickly rose up the ranks and assumed the company's
flagstaff project for which he developed a revolutionary processor that
could physically change in reaction to its environment, becoming
intangible before overheating. Thanks to his Ghost Tech, the company's
stock skyrocketed while the board, ever more dependent on the man who
would become Ghost, collected the credit. Exhausted after months of
work, the socially introverted programmer decided to leave on vacation,
conflicting with the board of directors' expectations for an
ahead-of-schedule launch that could increase their profit margins
significantly. Approached by an attractive co-worker as he was about to
leave, the young man cancelled his travel plans and began a relationship
with her. Happier and more productive than ever, he now found every
single aspect of his life tied to the company, all part of a well-oiled
machine, until his lover died in an explosion at her apartment.
Depressed over her death and unable to cope with its apparent
randomness, he sought solace by immersing his consciousness into the
data networks he created by wiring his own flesh with his flux-state
processors. Within this network, no randomness existed and his
unconscious mind, in a state of alpha, could solve any dilemma his
conscious mind was unable or unwilling to. In this state, he pieced
memories and hidden fragments of data together to realize his dead lover
had been hired by the board to seduce him, keeping him happy and
available to the company's every demand, and later murdered for
blackmailing them for more money. Terrified, he attempted to flee, but
his discoveries had been detected by the board of directors which
dispatched a contract killer after him. The hitman detonated a bomb in
his apartment before he could leave, destroying the entire building and
killing dozens of tenants. However, he survived, made intangible by the
flux-state processors fused with his body when a wall of fire hit him.
The experience completed his psychological transformation and the once
naive workaholic emerged as the Ghost, a paranoid vigilante bent on
wiping out corporatocracy. He immediately took revenge upon the board of
directors, butchering them all along with their contract killer, and
then erased all records of his previous life.

The Accutech Merger

Sometime after this, The Ghost was hired by CARRINGTON PAX, a leading
executive of the Roxxon Oil Corporation, to destroy Accutech Research
and Development. Accutech was trying to develop a beta particle
generator and when they refused to sell it to Roxxon, the Ghost was
hired to drive Accutech into bankruptcy. Tony Stark was interested in
acquiring Accutech's technology and bought the company. Investigating a
disturbance at the new facility as Iron Man, he first met the Ghost.
Iron Man managed to drive the Ghost from Accutech, but the Ghost swore
that he would have his revenge on Iron Man's employer, Tony Stark.

For the next few weeks, Tony Stark spent all his free time modifying his
armor. Sometimes, for extra security, he would sleep in his armor, too.
When Pax and the other executives at Roxxon heard that the Ghost had
gone rogue, they feared his actions would make the company look bad, so
they called in Spymaster to take care of him. After a fierce battle at
Stark Enterprises, the Ghost killed Spymaster. Using a modified version
of his intangibility circuits, the Ghost made Spymaster materialize in a
wall. The shock caused Spymaster's whole body to shut down, and he was
believed dead. It was shown years later in Dark Reign that the
Spymaster had faked his death.

Tony finally took the offensive against the Ghost. He set up a trap and
the Ghost walked right into it. After a short battle between Iron Man
and the Ghost, Iron Man cornered the Ghost in the room with the beta
particle generator. He had it turned on so he could see the cloaked
Ghost better, since radiation from the generator would cause
interference in the Ghost's sophisticated tech-suit. However, prolonged
exposure to the generator was fatal, and Iron Man didn't want to stay in
the room for too long. But the Ghost had sworn to bring down Stark
Enterprises and nothing, not even the chance of dying, would stop him.
As he tried to reach the generator to destroy it, the intense heat from
his overloading costume caused the floor to melt and the Ghost fell
through. As Iron Man searched for him, all he found of the Ghost was his
burnt costume. Still, Tony didn't believe that the Ghost was dead.

Unholy Ghost

Indeed, fairly soon after, the Ghost reappeared - this time plaguing a
company in Italy, owned by none other than Justin Hammer. The shrewd
industrialist intended to sell the company, Electronica Fabbrizi, to
Tony Stark, ridding him of a dangerous enemy and a useless asset, as
well as sticking a business rival with a nasty problem. However, after
Tony Stark discovered the true ownership of the floundering company, a
compromise was reached: Hammer's forces and Iron Man would cooperate in
taking out the Ghost. Hammer sent his operatives Blacklash, Blizzard,
and Boomerang to help Iron Man fight the Ghost. However, Hammer's team
betrayed Iron Man, planning to get rid of both their enemies.

Ghost attempted to kill Iron Man by rendering him intangible. While Iron
Man managed to save the lives of everybody involved, Electronica
Fabbrizi was irrevocably destroyed and the Ghost escaped. However, when
the mysterious villain confronted Hammer, it was revealed the ruthless
business man had defenses developed against the Ghost's intangibility
powers, and made his own escape, leaving his assailant trapped. Blasting
his way out, the saboteur vowed to continue his crusade against Hammer
and all companies anywhere.

Ghost was next hired by the Kingpin to steal the new Roxxon process to
create synthetic vibranium, and battled Spider-Man and the Black
Panther.

The Ghost was then defeated by Sunturion, but escaped and was then
defeated by Ultron.

The Big Bang Theory

Much later, several companies were suddenly and violently destroyed when
bombs, apparently installed in personal computers, went off in
inner-city offices. Tony Stark, who at the time was undercover as a
common employee at one of the companies that went under, managed to
track down the source of the attacks: the "Advanced Corp", a cover for
AIM. It was then revealed that AIM, not usually operating in common
business circles, on this occasion had employed a special agent to
eliminate the competition: the Ghost. Nearly defeating Iron Man in their
first fight and escaping without a hitch, he hit a nasty snag during
their second fight when he attempted to phase his costumed hand into
Iron Man's chest, and Tony Stark's then-artificial heart defended
itself, knocking him unconscious. He was subsequently arrested, but his
identity appears to have remained unknown.

Inevitable

Later still, having apparently escaped, the Ghost (in a new, more
streamlined outfit) was employed by the third Spymaster to help free the
Living Laser, who was "held captive" by Stark Industries at the time. He
attempted to kill Iron Man, and believed to have succeeded. In the end,
he proved too unreliable and quirky, and was abandoned by his employer,
remaining at large.

The Ghost was mentioned by Gauntlet as the one who attacked him and left
a NW mark on him (when it was actually the seemingly light-hearted
recruit Slapstick).

"Dark Reign"

[Ghost as seen on a cover for Thunderbolts.] During the "Dark Reign"
storyline, seems to have become more unhinged and reclusive, however, as
Ms.  mentions "He smells... Badly." and The Ghost himself shows
signs of increasing obsessiveness. With the Thunderbolts officially
disbanded, Norman Osborn recruits Ghost for his new Thunderbolts, now a
black ops team under Osborn's direct control. Ghost helps Osborn take
control of Air Force One with the Goblin (actually new Thunderbolts
member Headsman), Doc Samson, and the new President aboard. As part
of Osborn's plan, the Ghost phases Samson out of the plane, and drops
him from the sky. Osborn calls for the Ghost to come to Stark Tower,
where he unlocks a vault containing Iron Man's old armors. Ghost
later reveals to the Black Widow (actually Natasha Romanoff in disguise)
that when Osborn is king of the corporate world, he'll act as "a virus"
to bring it down from the inside. He explains he wants to inform
Yelena's real boss, Nick Fury. Widow was eventually exposed as
Natalia Romanova, who was in fact Nick Fury's undercover agent, and who
was attempting to make sure Songbird stayed alive. Paladin, Ghost and
Headsman purposely turned on the other Thunderbolts in order for the two
heroines to escape. However, Ghost insisted that they stay in the
Thunderbolts, for they all have their own agendas. He uses
electro-convulsive shock in order to make Scourge and Mister X forget
about the betrayal. At the end of the Dark Reign arc, Ghost betrayed
Osborn by sending a data package he had collected to whatever heroes
could receive it, warning them of Osborn's plans to capture Odin's
magical weapon, Gungnir. Aware of the emergency, Quicksilver crossed the
Atlantic Ocean and crushed Mister X (who wielded the weapon at the time)
in combat, retrieving it.

"Stark Disassembled"

Because Tony Stark had purposely lobotomized himself into a vegetative
state, and had his power of attorney transferred over to Donald Blake,
Madame Masque hired Ghost to kill Stark. She provided him a phone made
by the Tinkerer, which he could use to execute his phase abilities to
reach any place in the world. Ghost managed to track Stark to Broxton,
Oklahoma, where he twice attempted to assassinate Stark. All the while,
Stark's comrades were attempting to reboot his brain. By then, Stark had
regained consciousness and used the Ghost's own phone against him,
sending him to a facility in Seoul.

Thunderbolts Post-"Siege"

For his help in the downfall of Norman Osborn, Ghost was recruited into
the new Thunderbolts team formed in the aftermath of Siege. Ghost is
the first team member that Cage meets with as he arrives at the
Raft. During Shadowland, he would witness Crossbones assassinate a
police officer the Thunderbolts were meant to save. Ghost would also
prove instrumental in the attempted Thunderbolt break out, but in doing
so, managed to go to an alternate dimension, and he came face to face
with Iron Man again. In order to beat Ghost, Iron Man transmitted into
Ghost's network a confirmation that all Stark Industries divisions were
being shut down effective immediately. Ghost therefore resigned from
plans to kill Stark, because he is no longer a tech monopolist.
After coming back to The Raft, Ghost told Moonstone an unverifiable
origin tale, whereupon he mused over whether that means he's regained
his capacity to trust or whether he simply perceives her as no threat at
all, only to conclude, as he phased through a speechless Moonstone, that
both are irrelevant to a man who abandoned his humanity and is truly
untouchable.

Ghost is later approached by Tiberius Stone and Mark Raxton, who hire
him to sabotage Parker Industries, a competitor to Stone's own company
Alchemax. Ghost infiltrates Parker Industries, and while he is
subdued by Spider-Man and the company's employees, he still succeeds in
destroying their building and everything in it with explosives.


Powers and abilities

The Ghost wears a battlesuit of his own design. Its Ghost-tech enables
him to turn himself and any objects he touches invisible or intangible,
but not both at the same time. Unknown devices in the battle-suit enable
him to hack and reprogram all manner of electronic systems in his
vicinity as well as intercept, tamper with or silence electromagnetic
signals. This tech along with his superb intellect make him a
super-hacker.

The Ghost also invented guns that fire bursts of electricity or
concussive force blasts and employs a large arsenal of high-tech
weaponry, including incendiary devices, self-targeting Anson grenades
and sound-activated bombs. Nevertheless, he often avoids direct
confrontations altogether, preferring subterfuge and ambush tactics.

He is a brilliant tactician, inventor and computer hacker.


Other versions

Ultimate 

The Ultimate  version of Ghost is introduced in Ultimate Comics:
Armor Wars #1, where he sneaks into one of Tony Stark's underground
hideouts and steals an ornament from him. His armor has the traditional
phasing capabilities, and he is also able to generate teleportation
fields that allow him to warp objects away. He is later revealed to
be working for "Project Tomorrow" under the Titanium Man. After
Justine and Tony are kidnapped by Titanium Man's forces, who reveals
himself to be Howard Stark Sr., he and all the other experiments except
Tony are killed by an EMP that destroys all tech nearby. Very little
is known about this Ghost, but according to Howard Stark Sr., "He got a
funny accent."


In other media

Television

-   The Ghost makes a brief appearance in the Iron Man episode "The
    Armor Wars" Pt. 1, voiced by Jennifer Hale, Jamie Horton, and Tom
    Kane simultaneously. He is hired by Justin Hammer to steal the Stark
    Armor designs.
-   The Ghost appears in the Iron Man: Armored Adventures episodes
    "Chasing Ghosts", "Designed Only for Chaos", "Ghost in the Machine",
    and "Fugitive of S.H.I.E.L.D.", voiced by Michael Dobson.

Video games

-   Ghost appears as a boss in the PSP and Wii versions of the video
    game Iron Man 2, voiced by Steven Blum.
-   Ghost appears in the video game  Heroes, voiced by Phil
    Buckman. He briefly works for Doctor Doom and helps him steal The
    Tablet of Time. He later cuts ties with Doctor Doom and vanishes
    through a wall. Ghost later aids the heroes by alerting them to
    Doom's plans as they prepare to storm Castle Doomstadt.
-   Ghost appears in : Avengers Alliance 2.

Motion comics

-   Ghost appears in the Spider-Woman motion comics, voiced by Jesse
    Falcon.

