GHOST RIDER 2099 is a comic book series that was published by 
Comics, under the  2099 imprint, from 1994 to 1996.

The series is set in the year 2099, in a dystopian possible future of
the  Universe, and features KENSHIRO "ZERO" COCHRANE, a hacker who
was killed but resurrected as the GHOST RIDER — his mind controlling a
powerful and well-armed robot. As with most of the  2099 titles,
the protagonist was a futuristic version of a commercially successful
 Universe character. The series was heavily influenced by
cyberpunk science fiction.


Publication history

The Ghost Rider 2099 series was not one of the initial titles launched
for the 2099 imprint and contained few direct crossovers with the other
titles. The series ran for 25 issues, ending in May 1996. The title
character's story was concluded in the final issue, but Zero Cochrane
did reappear as an important character in the final 2099 story in the
one-shot 2099: Manifest Destiny.


Fictional character biography

Hacker Kenshiro "Zero" Cochrane was shot and facing death in Transverse
City after being hunted down for stealing information from the D/Monix
corporation. As the poison from a flechette coursed through his body,
Zero downloaded his mind into cyberspace, thus blocking access to the
knowledge he had stolen from his enemies.

Cochrane's mind is discovered by the artificial intelligences dwelling
in a hidden section of cyberspace known as the Ghostworks. The
Ghostworks ask Zero to be their avatar to the real world, feeling his
brash and rebellious attitude will make him the ideal candidate.
Cochrane accepts and is downloaded into a robotic Cybertek 101 body. Due
to his similarity to the 20th century superhero, the robot becomes known
as the Ghost Rider.

The Ghost Rider proceeds to avenge his own death and struggles against
the plans of the D/Monix corporation, which leads to a confrontation
with Zero's father, Harrison Cochrane. A loyal corporate servant,
Harrison indirectly (but intentionally) caused his son's death.

Unresolved plotlines

-   The series ends with the artificial intelligence L-Cypher free
    and undetected. Although his enemies believe that he has been
    destroyed, L-Cypher has been downloaded into a stolen human body and
    is planning his revenge.
-   Heartbreaker's origin is never revealed.
-   The Ghost Rider plays no part in the subsequent 2099: World of
    Tomorrow series, although the last scene of the final issue does
    show a D/MONIX diver exploring the flooded ruins of Transverse City,
    recovering what he apparently believes to be an inert Ghost Rider.
    The Ghost Rider itself is not pictured, however. 2099: World of
    Tomorrow was the final  2099 series and was canceled
    abruptly, leaving this plotline unresolved and unexplained.
-   At least one issue of the series was unpublished. Titled "Daddy
    Dearest", the issue was written by Scott Andrews and penciled by Max
    Douglas. After the 2099 line was canceled, there was no prospect of
    the issue ever being published. Scott put the final lettered
    black-and-white version up on his website as part of his portfolio.


Other versions

Zero Cochrane helps the Wolverine of the modern age explore and travel
through a new and different world of 2099 in order to gain the knowledge
to both time periods from merging into each other. As part of this, Zero
confronts and fights Doctor Doom, Spider-Man, Cerebra and the Iron
Patriot.


Powers, abilities, and equipment

Ghost Rider 2099 is a Cybertek 101 robot. The reinforced carbon-steel
silicon composite robotic body gave Ghost Rider superhuman strength,
endurance and durability. Both hands were capable of transforming, the
right hand into a ceramic graphite composite bladed chainsaw that
blasted bursts of energy; and the left hand in to a polymimetic nanomer
alloy claw, able to cut on a submolecular level. The robot also
possessed a stealth system rendering Ghost Rider invisible to detection
by both electronic systems and the naked eye; in addition, it possesses
a "solidgram" camouflage system that could allow him to mimic the
appearance of any individual (including Zero Cochrane), and create the
illusion of his head being engulfed in flames. The robot also had optic
lasers, and was capable of self-repairing.

During the series the robot body needs to be recharged on a relatively
regular basis, especially after draining power to operate its weapons
systems (in several stories this is used as a dramatic device, with the
Ghost Rider struggling against a foe when his power supply is almost
exhausted). However, in the final issue this becomes less of a problem,
as Zero obtains a "Mr. Fusion" portable power generator. The same scene
explains that the Ghostworks had previously blocked the Ghost Rider from
thinking of this solution, as they did not wish to risk him becoming too
independent.

Zero is an expert computer hacker and cybersurfer, able to force his way
both in and out of almost any system. As a digital psyche, Zero could
surf cyberspace, access information, and exist without food, water or
other sustenance.

Ghost Rider rode a modified version of Zero Cochrane's original
souped-up motorcycle, a Ford Velociraptor 900 with thrusters and
anti-gravity propulsion.


Supporting cast

-   Kylie Gagarin – Zero Cochrane's girlfriend.
-   Willis Adams – A journalist working for Mainline Media.
-   Anesthesia Jones – Owner of the Bar Code.
-   The Ghostworks – Initially used as a name for the hidden region of
    cyberspace where the Ghost Rider's creators dwell, later in the
    series the artificial intelligences themselves are also referred to
    as the Ghostworks.
-   Doctor Neon (Jimmy Alhazared)
-   Harrison Cochrane

Villains and antagonists

-   Coda
-   D/MONIX
-   Dyson Kellerman
-   Heartbreaker
-   Jeter
-   Kabal
-   Harrison Cochrane
-   L-Cypher
-   Vengeance 2099
-   Warewolf


In other media

Video games

-   Ghost Rider 2099 appears as an alternate costume in the Ghost
    Rider movie tie-in video game.
-   Ghost Rider 2099 appears as an alternate costume for Ghost Rider in
    Ultimate  vs Capcom 3.

