FAHNBULLAH EDDY, also known as GORILLA GIRL, is a fictional superheroine
appearing in American comic books published by .


Publication history

Gorilla Girl first appeared in  Team-Up #91 (March 1980), and
was created by Steven Grant and Pat Broderick.


Fictional character biography

Fahnbullah Eddy, originally known as GORILLA WOMAN, worked at a
carnival as a member of the FREAKS, a group of circus freaks that
included Muck Monster and Six. When the Freaks fell under the control of
the sorcerer Moondark, he forced them to battle Spider-Man.
Gorilla Girl and the Freaks were later seen in a fight against the
criminals Hammer and Anvil.

After the events of the Civil War, Gorilla Girl was captured by the
Thunderbolts. During her capture, she threw Penance down three flights
of stairs, after which Penance beat her severely. She later
registered with the Initiative and joined Camp Hammond along with Annex,
Prodigy, and others.

During the Skrull invasion she is one of the Initiative members to go
into battle in Times Square. She loses teammate Proton; he is executed
by the Skrulls. They join the 'Young Avengers' and are saved by the
'Secret Commandos'. Afterwards, Gorilla Girl asked to be put in the
Initiative reserves. However, before she gets very far, the Thor clone
attacks Camp Hammond, and Gorilla Girl fights him before Counter Force
intervenes.

Gorilla Girl strikes up a friendship with the alternate universe simian
version of Speedball, another Initiative recruit. She becomes involved
in the plan of Norman Osborn to exploit the resources of her friend's
home dimension. The two also work with Gibbon (another simian
superhuman) as well as Red Ghost's Super-Apes.

When Gorilla Girl, the simian Speedball, and Gibbon ended up in the
 Apes universe, they find themselves in the midst of an invasion
by the  Zombies. Gorilla Girl shifted into her gorilla form and
ripped off Zombie Medusa's hair to protect them. Just as they were about
to be overwhelmed, a group of  Apes appeared and helped to fight
the  Zombies. Gorilla Girl thinks that the simian version of
Captain America can get them back to the  Apes universe. Using the
Wrencher, Gorilla Girl was able to destroy the Zombie Green Goblin. When
Zombie Doctor Doom proved too much for Gorilla Girl, the Super-Apes were
able to defeat them. Upon encountering a human Magneto, the simian
Speedball figures out that they are in the  Zombies universe. As
Ape X plans to destroy the portal, he says goodbye to Gorilla Girl.
However, Gorilla Girl kneed him when his guard was down so that she
could go in his place. Using the Wrencher's wrench, Gorilla Girl
attacked the simian heroes and destroyed the portal, setting time
right.


Powers and abilities

Fahnbullah Eddy is able to shapeshift into a super-strong and highly
agile gorilla. Even in her gorilla form, she can speak and think.


In other media

Video games

-   Gorilla Girl appears as a playable character in Lego 's
    Avengers, voiced by Cherise Boothe.

