The GREEN GOBLIN is the alias of several fictional supervillains
appearing in American comic books published by , mostly
those starring Spider-Man. The first and most well known incarnation is
NORMAN OSBORN, who was created by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko in The
Amazing Spider-Man #14. The Green Goblin is a Halloween-themed
supervillain whose weapons resemble bats, ghosts and jack-o'-lanterns.
Comics journalist and historian Mike Conroy writes of the character: "Of
all the costumed villains who've plagued Spider-Man over the years, the
most flat-out unhinged and terrifying of them all is the Green
Goblin." The Green Goblin has appeared in several films including
2002's Spider-Man as Norman Osborn, and 2014's The Amazing Spider-Man
2 as Harry Osborn, Norman's embittered son.


Publication history

[The Amazing Spider-Man #14 (July 1964), the Green Goblin's first
appearance; the character originally used a turbo-fan-powered "flying
broomstick." Cover art by Steve Ditko.] According to Steve Ditko:
"Stan's synopsis for the Green Goblin had a movie crew, on location,
finding an Egyptian-like sarcophagus. Inside was an ancient,
mythological demon, the Green Goblin. He naturally came to life. On my
own, I changed Stan's mythological demon into a human villain."

The Green Goblin debuted in The Amazing Spider-Man #14. At this
time his identity was unknown, but he proved popular and reappeared in
later issues, which made a point of his secret identity. According to
both Stan Lee and John Romita, Sr., who replaced Ditko as the title's
artist, Lee always wanted the Green Goblin to be someone Peter Parker
knew, while Ditko wanted his civilian identity to be someone who hadn't
yet been introduced. Lee elaborated: "At some point we had to
tell the reader who The Green Goblin really was. And Steve wanted him to
turn out to be just some character that we had never seen before.
Because, he said, in real life, very often a villain turns out to be
somebody that you never knew. And I felt that that would be wrong. I
felt, in a sense, it would be like cheating the reader. ... if it's
somebody you didn't know and had never seen, then what was the point of
following all the clues? I think that frustrates the reader. So that was
a big argument we had." However, Ditko's account contradicts Lee's:
"So I had to have some definite ideas: who he was, his profession and
how he fit into the Spider-Man story world. I was even going to use an
earlier, planted character associated with J. Jonah Jameson: he [was to]
be [revealed as] the Green Goblin. It was like a subplot working its way
until it was ready to play an active role."

Ditko left the series with issue #38, before he could reveal the
Goblin's identity, and Lee unmasked him in the next issue as Norman
Osborn, a character who had been introduced two issues earlier as the
father of Harry Osborn. John Romita, Sr., who replaced Ditko as the
title's artist, recalled:

In the landmark story "The Night Gwen Stacy Died" (The Amazing
Spider-Man #121-122), the Green Goblin kills Gwen Stacy and later
perishes in a fight against Spider-Man. However, the story's writer,
Gerry Conway, had Harry Osborn adopt the Green Goblin identity in the
aftermath of "The Night Gwen Stacy Died", later remarking that "I never
had any intention of getting rid of the Green Goblin as a concept".

Several other characters would take on the Green Goblin identity, and
writer Roger Stern later introduced the Hobgoblin to replace the Green
Goblin as Spider-Man's archenemy. In addition, a retcon during the
"Clone Saga" determined that the original Green Goblin survived the
events of The Amazing Spider-Man #122 and had been playing a
behind-the-scenes role in Spider-Man's adventures since then.


Biographies

Norman Osborn

NORMAN OSBORN is the main character connected with the alias who
developed the equipment used by the other Green Goblins ever since he
was exposed to the Goblin Formula.

Harry Osborn

HARRY OSBORN, Norman Osborn's son, becomes the second Green Goblin.
After being defeated and placed under the care of Dr. Bart Hamilton,
Harry while under hypnosis reveals many Green Goblin secrets and
Hamilton decides to become the third Green Goblin. Harry recovers and
fights Hamilton until an explosion renders Harry amnesiac of his time as
the Green Goblin and kills Hamilton. Years later, Harry's memories
return and he uses a new stronger Goblin serum to augment his power,
but dies from it. Harry would later return thanks to the
machinations of Mephisto in "One More Day".

Bart Hamilton

DR. BARTON "BART" HAMILTON was a psychologist born in Scarsdale, New
York. Before his death, Harry is put under the medical care of Dr.
Hamilton, who manages to make Harry bury his vendetta and identity as
the Goblin in his subconscious via hypnosis. Dr. Hamilton uses
Harry's secrets to become the third Green Goblin. However, Harry has
no knowledge of where the Green Goblin strength-enhancing formula is,
and Hamilton is thus unable to locate it. He hatches an elaborate plot
to kill Silvermane, but Harry Osborn resumes the Green Goblin identity
to stop him. They battle and Hamilton is accidentally killed by a bomb
with which he meant to kill Spider-Man, and Harry becomes amnesiac.
Years later, there was speculation that Hamilton was the Hobgoblin but
this is disproved. A Green Goblin that is presumably Hamilton
appears as a member of the second incarnation of the Legion of the
Unliving, created by the Grandmaster. After being pitted against the
Avengers, the group and their master are vanquished by Death.

Phil Urich

After Harry's insanity relapses and he becomes the Green Goblin again on
numerous occasions until he dies from the side effects of a modified
Goblin serum, his equipment and the Green Goblin identity are then
briefly used by PHILIP BENJAMIN "PHIL" URICH (nephew of Ben Urich of the
Daily Bugle) trying to gain a reputation as a superhero, although he is
sometimes seen as being as maniacal as his villainous predecessors. When
his equipment is damaged during a battle against a Sentinel in the
Onslaught crossover, Phil is unable to repair or replace it and the
fourth Green Goblin thereafter retires. He later forms the team
Excelsior. Currently Phil has become the new Hobgoblin, but after being
caught by Spider-Man he is broken out of jail and becomes the Goblin
Knight a servant of the Green Goblin.

Nameless construct

After returning from the dead, Norman begins trying to convince the
public that he was never the Green Goblin, so he has an associate named
Doctor Angst genetically engineer a new Green Goblin, one slavishly
devoted to him, to help his case. Norman uses the Goblin as a
bodyguard, to torment Spider-Man, and in ploys (such as
kidnapping Normie Osborn for ransom) designed to draw public
sympathy.

After Norman is incapacitated by the Gathering of Five, the Goblin is
left alone, and begins to degenerate due to no longer having access to
the formula required to keep him stable. The Goblin goes after Harry
Osborn's wife Liz Allan in a desperate bid to find a cure for his
condition, but is driven off by Spider-Man. During a second attempt
to capture Liz, the Goblin unmasks himself in front of Spider-Man
(shuffling through a variety of faces, the most prominent being Harry,
after doing so) and melts into a pile of goo as he claims Norman would
return.


Powers and abilities

In his first appearances, the Green Goblin seems to be a normal man
(albeit very nimble and athletic) who gets his powers from his many
gadgets. In later appearances, it is established that due to the "Goblin
Formula", Norman and any successor to the Goblin persona possesses
superhuman strength (lifting 9 tons under optimal conditions), increased
speed, reflexes, endurance, and healing rate. Though much slower than
the likes of Wolverine, he can regenerate damaged tissue and organs. His
intelligence has been enhanced to gifted levels, though at the price of
his sanity. His involvement with the Gathering of the Five loosened his
grip on reality, though he is able to maintain his sanity via chemically
treated dermal patches. When not impaired by mental illness, Osborn is a
cunning businessman, masterful strategist, and highly skilled in
electronics, mechanics, engineering and chemistry. The Green Goblin is
armed with a variety of bizarre devices. He travels on his bat-shaped
"Goblin Glider", an incredibly fast and maneuverable rocket glider
equipped with various armaments. Other weapons the Goblin uses include
incendiary Pumpkin Bombs, smoke- and gas-emitting grenades resembling
ghosts and jack-'o'-lanterns, razor-edged boomerang-like throwing
weapons called razor bats and gloves woven with micro-circuited
filaments which channel pulsed discharges of electricity at nearly
10,000 volts. He wears a green costume underneath bulletproof chainmail
with an overlapping purple tunic. His mask has a built-in gas filter to
keep him safe from his own gasses.

Goblin Glider

In the Green Goblin's first appearance in "The Amazing Spider-Man" #14,
he rides a steel, rocket powered wingless broomstick, not a glider. In
issue #17, his second appearance, he changes it to the familiar
bat-shaped glider. The Goblin Glider's controls and microprocessor are
located behind the head of the glider. The pilot is attached to the
glider via electromagnetic clasps on the wings of the glider. It has
great maneuverability and is steered mostly by leaning, but manual
controls are available behind the head of the glider. The Green Goblin
later added radio-linked voice controls to his mask. Its top speed is ,
and it can support about , though it could lift far more for brief
periods. Flying at top speed with a full load and a full fuel tank would
deplete its fuel supply in about an hour.

In the Goblin's later appearances, the glider possesses a wide array of
armaments, including heat-seeking and smart missiles, machine guns,
extending blades, a flamethrower and a pumpkin bomb dispenser/launcher.

Pumpkin Bombs, Ghost Bombs, and the "Bag of Tricks"

A grenade used by the Green Goblin, the Pumpkin Bomb resembles a
miniature Jack-o'-lantern and, when thrown, ignites almost soundlessly
and produces enough heat to melt through a thick sheet of steel. The
Goblin carries these and a variety of other weapons, such as razor bats
(akin to bladed boomerangs) and miniature "Ghost Bombs" in an
over-the-shoulder satchel he calls his "Bag Of Tricks". The Green Goblin
has a range of other "Pumpkin Bombs" and "Ghost Bombs" at his disposal,
including smoke-and gas-emitting bombs. Some release hallucinogenic
gases, while others emit a specially-created mixture that neutralizes
Spider-Man's spider-sense for a limited period of time. Still others
emit a flame-retarding gas, which the Goblin uses against the Human
Torch. All of these are covered in a light plastic coating.


Associated Goblins


Groups

Goblinettes

Some time after Harry's death, his son Normie is abducted by a trio of
mysterious female Goblins. With the aid of Ben Urich and Molten Man,
Spider-Man discovers that these "Goblinettes" are robots created by
Harry, and controlled by a supercomputer containing copies of Harry and
Norman's minds. The Goblinettes are destroyed along with the computer,
which had been programmed to expose Normie to the same version of the
Goblin Serum that killed Harry, in attempt to create a new Green
Goblin.

Order of the Goblin

An offshoot of the Scriers cult founded by Norman, consisting of only
his most loyal followers.

Goblin Gangs

Following Norman Osborn's rise and fall from power, a number of Goblin
Gangs sprang up across America. Composed mostly of white supremacists
who agreed with his plans to remove the Asgardians from the country,
they wear purple clothes, green face makeup and have goblin-based
tattoos. Vin Gonzales was revealed to have received one of these
tattoos while in prison when he passed a message from Norman to Harry
about Stanley, Harry's newborn son.

Goblin Underground

The Goblin Underground is a group of organized crime composed of
Goblin-themed villains led by Goblin King against their nemesis
Spider-Man.

War Goblins

In the eight month timeskip that occurred subsequent to the events of
Secret Wars, a heavily bandaged arms dealer claiming to be Norman
Osborn began selling Green Goblin-based costumes and equipment on the
black market, establishing private armies of "War Goblins".


Other versions

As a fictional character, the Green Goblin has appeared in a number of
media, from comic books to films and television series. Each version of
the character is typically established within its own continuity within
parallel universes, to the point where distinct differences in the
portrayal of the character can be identified. Various versions of the
Goblin are depicted in works such as 's Ultimate line and Earth
X.


In other media

The Green Goblin has appeared in many Spider-Man related media.

