    Pym Particles redirect here.

DR. HENRY "HANK" PYM is a fictional character appearing in American
comic books published by . Created by editor and plotter
Stan Lee, scripter Larry Lieber and penciler Jack Kirby, the character
first appeared in Tales to Astonish #27 (Jan. 1962). The character, a
scientist that debuted in a standalone science-fiction anthology story,
returned several issues later as the original iteration of the superhero
ANT-MAN with the power to shrink to the size of an insect. Alongside his
crime-fighting partner/wife Janet van Dyne, he goes on to assume other
superhero identities, including the size-changing GIANT-MAN and GOLIATH;
the insect-themed YELLOWJACKET; and briefly the WASP. He is a founding
member of the superhero team the Avengers.

Debuting in the Silver Age of Comic Books, Hank Pym has featured in
other -endorsed products such as animated films; arcade and video
games; television series and merchandise such as action figures and
trading cards. Michael Douglas portrays the character in the 2015 
Studios film Ant-Man.


Publication history

[Hank Pym debuts as Ant-Man: Tales To Astonish #35 (Sept. 1962). Cover
art by Jack Kirby and Dick Ayers.] Hank Pym debuted in a seven-page solo
cover story titled "The Man in the Ant Hill" (about a character who
tests shrinking technology on himself) in the science fiction/fantasy
anthology Tales to Astonish #27 (cover date Jan. 1962). The creative
team was editor-plotter Stan Lee, scripter Larry Lieber, penciler Jack
Kirby, and inker Dick Ayers, with Lee stating in 2008: "I did one comic
book called 'The Man in the Ant Hill' about a guy who shrunk down and
there were ants or bees chasing him. That sold so well that I thought
making him into a superhero might be fun."

As a result, Pym was revived eight issues later as the costumed
superhero ANT-MAN who starred in the 13-page, three-chapter story
"Return of the Ant-Man/An Army of Ants/The Ant-Man’s Revenge" in Tales
to Astonish #35 (Sept. 1962). The character's adventures became an
ongoing feature in the title. Issue #44 (June 1963) featured the debut
of his socialite girlfriend and laboratory assistant Janet van Dyne.
Janet adopted the costumed identity of the Wasp, and co-starred in Pym's
subsequent appearances in Tales to Astonish. Wasp also on occasion
acted as a framing-sequence host for backup stories in the title. In
September 1963, Lee and Kirby created the superhero title Avengers,
and Ant-Man and Wasp were established in issue #1 as founding members of
the team.

Decades later, Lee theorized as to why "Ant-Man never became one of our
top sellers or had his own book," saying,

Pym began what would be a constant shifting of superhero identities in
Tales to Astonish, becoming the tall GIANT-MAN in issue #49 (Nov.
1963). Pym and van Dyne continued to costar in the title until issue #69
(July 1965), while simultaneously appearing in The Avengers until
issue #15 (April 1965), after which the couple temporarily left the
team.

Pym rejoined the Avengers and adopted the new identity GOLIATH in
Avengers #28 (May 1966). Gradually falling to mental strain, he
adopted the fourth superhero identity YELLOWJACKET in issue #59 (Dec.
1968). Pym reappeared as Ant-Man in Avengers #93 (Nov. 1971) and for
issues #4–10 starred in the lead story of the first volume of 
Feature (July 1972 – July 1973). After appearing occasionally as
Yellowjacket in the 1980s and battling mental and emotional issues, Pym
would temporarily abandon a costumed persona. Pym joined the West Coast
Avengers as a scientist and inventor in West Coast Avengers vol. 2,
#21 (June 1987). The character returned to the Avengers as the superhero
Giant-Man in The Avengers vol. 3, #1 (Feb. 1998). When the team
disbanded after a series of tragedies, Pym, using the Yellowjacket
persona again, took a leave of absence beginning with vol. 3, #85 (Sept.
2004).

Following the death of van Dyne, a grieving Pym took on yet another
superhero identity as the new iteration of WASP, in tribute to the woman
he had married and divorced by this time, in the one-shot publication
Secret Invasion: Requiem (Jan. 2009). Giant-Man appeared as a
supporting character in Avengers Academy from issue #1 (Aug. 2010)
through its final issue #39 (Jan. 2013). Pym returned as the Wasp in the
mini-series Ant-Man & The Wasp (Jan. 2011), and also appeared as a
regular character in the 2010-2013 Secret Avengers series, from issue
#22 (April 2012) through its final issue #37 (March 2013).


Fictional character biography

1960s

[Hank Pym as Giant-Man in Tales to Astonish #56 (June 1964). Cover art
by Jack Kirby and Chic Stone.] Biochemist Dr. Henry "Hank" Pym discovers
an unusual set of subatomic particles he labels "Pym particles".
Entrapping these within two separate serums, he creates a size-altering
formula and a reversal formula, testing them on himself. Reduced to the
size of an insect, he becomes trapped in an anthill before he eventually
escapes and uses the reversal formula to restore himself to his normal
size. Deciding the serums are too dangerous to exist, he destroys
them. Shortly afterward, he reconsiders his decision and recreates
his serums. Pym's experience in the anthill inspires him to study ants,
and he constructs a cybernetic helmet that allows him to communicate
with and control them. Pym designs a costume made of unstable molecules
to prevent bites or scratches from the ants, and reinvents himself as
the superhero Ant-Man. After several adventures, Pym is contacted by
Dr. Vernon van Dyne asking for aid in contacting alien life. Pym
refuses, but is attracted to Vernon’s socialite daughter Janet van Dyne.
Vernon is subsequently killed by an alien criminal who teleports himself
to Earth, and Janet asks for Pym's help in avenging Vernon's death. Pym
reveals his secret identity to Janet, and uses Pym particles to graft
wasp wings beneath her shoulders, which appear when Janet shrinks. Janet
assumes the alias of the Wasp, and together they find and defeat
Vernon's killer. The pair become founding members of the superhero
team known as the Avengers.

Pym eventually adopts his first alternate identity as the 12-foot-tall
Giant-Man. He and the Wasp develop a romantic relationship. In
comics three decades later, a flashback reveals Pym adopted the
Giant-Man identity out of feelings of inadequacy when compared to
powerful teammates Iron Man and Thor. Shortly afterward, Pym and van
Dyne take a leave of absence from the Avengers.

Pym adopts the new identity of Goliath upon returning. A mishap
traps the character in giant form for several issues, and affects his
self-esteem. After regaining control of his size-shifting ability,
Pym creates the robot Ultron that accidentally achieves sentience and
becomes one of the Avengers's greatest foes. During a botched
experiment, Pym inhales chemicals that induce schizophrenia, and
suffering from a personality crisis, reappears at Avengers Mansion as
the cocky Yellowjacket, claiming to have disposed of Pym. Only the Wasp
realizes it is Pym and takes advantage of his offer of marriage. Pym
eventually recovers from the chemicals during a battle with the Circus
of Crime at the wedding.

1970s

After several adventures with the Avengers, including another encounter
with Ultron, the pair take another leave of absence. The heroes
reencounter Hank Pym at the beginning of the Kree-Skrull War, and
once again as the Ant-Man persona and has a series of solo
adventures.

After aiding fellow superhero team known as the Defenders as
Yellowjacket, Pym returns to the Avengers. He is eventually captured
by an upgraded Ultron that brainwashes his creator, causing the
character to regress to his original Ant-Man costume and personality —
arriving at Avengers Mansion, thinking it to be the very first meeting
of the team. Seeing several unfamiliar members, Pym attacks the team
until stopped by the Wasp. After Ultron's brainwashing is reversed,
Pym rejoins the Avengers as Yellowjacket. Pym is forced to briefly
leave the team when the roster is restructured by government liaison
Henry Peter Gyrich.

Also at this time, he noticed Scott Lang's theft of the Ant-Man suit.
After Darren Cross's defeat and aware of Lang's use of the stolen goods,
Pym let Lang keep the equipment albeit only to uphold the law.

1980s

[Hank Pym strikes his wife Janet van Dyne in Avengers #213 (November
1981). Art by Bob Hall.] Returning 14 issues later, Hank Pym
participates in several missions until, after demonstrating hostile
behavior toward Janet van Dyne, he attacks a foe from behind once the
opponent had ceased fighting. Captain America suspends Yellowjacket from
Avengers duty pending the verdict of a court-martial. Pym suffers a
mental breakdown and concocts a plan to salvage his credibility by
building a robot, Salvation-1, and programming it to launch an attack on
the Avengers that he will stop using the robot’s weakness at the
critical moment, in hopes of regaining his good standing. The Wasp
discovers the plan and begs Pym to stop, whereupon he strikes her. Jim
Shooter, the writer of this story, says he intended only that Pym
accidentally strike her while gesturing at her dismissively, and that
artist Bob Hall misinterpreted. Pym is subsequently expelled from
the Avengers, and Janet divorces him.

Left penniless, Pym is manipulated by an old foe, the presumed-dead
Egghead tricking him into stealing the national reserve of the metal
adamantium. Pym is confronted by the Avengers (whom he had covertly
summoned), and after being defeated is blamed for the theft, as Egghead
erases all evidence of his involvement. Blaming an ostensibly dead
villain is taken as further proof of Pym’s madness and he is
incarcerated. During Pym’s imprisonment, Janet has a brief
relationship with Tony Stark. Egghead later involves himself, and
while attempting to kill Pym is himself accidentally killed by Hawkeye
as the latter's brother had been murdered by Egghead years ago. With the
real perpetrator exposed, Pym is cleared of all charges. After bidding
farewell to Janet and his teammates, Pym leaves to devote his full-time
to research.

Pym reappears in the West Coast Avengers, first in an advisory role,
and then as a full member in a non-costumed capacity. He begins a
short relationship with teammate Tigra, and after a verbal taunting
by old foe Whirlwind contemplates suicide, but is stopped by the heroine
Firebird. Pym and Janet eventually resume a romantic
relationship.

1990s

The character eventually returns to the Avengers, joining the East Coast
team as Giant-Man. The pair, together with many of the other
Avengers, apparently sacrifice themselves to stop the villain Onslaught,
but actually exist in a pocket universe for a year before returning to
the mainstream  Universe.

Hank Pym returns and aids the team as Giant-Man, and makes a
significant contribution by defeating criminal mastermind Imus
Champion and his flawed creation Ultron, simultaneously overcoming
his old issues of guilt over Ultron's crimes — revealed to be due to him
having used his own brain patterns to create Ultron, and so believing
that Ultron's attitude reflects his darker side.

2000s

When Rick Jones becomes a key player in the Destiny War between Kang the
Conqueror and Immortus, two versions of Hank Pym are drawn in: Giant-Man
of the present and Yellowjacket immediately prior to his marriage to
Janet van Dyne. The two versions begin to deteriorate from being
apart, but are restored when the Wasp helps the two halves realize they
need each other. Pym is eventually able to resolve his problems and
adopts his Yellowjacket persona once again.

After the events of the "Avengers Disassembled" storyline, Pym takes a
leave of absence, and in the one-shot title Avengers: Finale, the
character and Janet leave for England to rekindle their
relationship. Pym and Janet's relationship fails and it is revealed
in flashback during the Secret Invasion storyline that he has been
replaced by an alien of the shapeshifting Skrull race.

The impostor as Yellowjacket is a central character in the Civil War
storyline, joining those heroes that support the Superhuman Registration
Act. Together with Mister Fantastic (of the Fantastic Four) and Tony
Stark, the character creates a cybernetic clone of Thor to battle the
anti-registration heroes, although the clone shows no morals and kills
Bill Foster (the second Goliath) in battle. Pym is kidnapped by the
Young Avengers member Hulkling using shapeshifter powers to impersonate
Pym and free several captive anti-registration heroes. At the conclusion
of the Civil War, the impostor is named "Man of the Year" by Time
magazine for his role.

The Skrull impostor Criti Noll becomes one of the chief administrators
at Camp Hammond, a U.S. military base in Stamford, Connecticut, for the
training of registered superheroes in the government program, The
Initiative. The Skrull ends the attempt at reconciliation with
Janet, and begins a romantic relationship with Tigra. The Skrull
impostor eventually is exposed and defeated by the hero Crusader.
Following a final battle between Earth's heroes and the Skrulls, the
real Hank Pym is found with other "replaced" heroes in a Skrull vessel.
After Janet is seemingly killed in the final battle, Pym takes on
the new superhero persona known as the Wasp in tribute to her. He
rejoins the Avengers and eventually leads the team.

The cosmic entity Eternity reveals to Pym that he is Earth's "Scientist
Supreme", the scientific counterpart to the Earth's Sorcerer
Supreme. The Norse trickster-god Loki later claims to have been
posing as Eternity in order to manipulate Pym.

2010s

Hank Pym creates Avengers Academy, a program to help train young people
with newly acquired superpowers. Pym returns to his Giant-Man
identity in Avengers Academy #7. Pym later joins the team the
Secret Avengers. When a future version of Pym's sentient-robot
Ultron conquers the world of the present in the "Age of Ultron"
storyline, a time-travel plan involving Wolverine and Iron Man succeeds
in having the past Pym make a change in his creation of Ultron, which
destroys the robot with a computer virus.

Pym and Monica Chang, A.I. Division Chief of the espionage agency
S.H.I.E.L.D., assemble a new team called the Avengers A.I. in order to
combat the threat of the A.I. Dimitrios, which was spawned by the virus
Pym used to prevent the Age of Ultron. The team consists of Pym, Victor
Mancha, the Vision, and a Doombot. The team is later joined by
Alexis, who is eventually revealed to be one of six sentient A.I.s
to be spawned from the Ultron virus along with Dimitrios.

Months later, Pym, again using the Yellowjacket identity, is shown as a
member of the Illuminati. He is the one to discover that the
Beyonders are responsible for the Universe Incursions that have been
plaguing the Multiverse.

In Rage of Ultron, after a past iteration of Ultron returns and
conquers Titan, Pym is one of the Avengers who fights against him. An
accident leads to Pym and Ultron accidentally merging, creating a hybrid
human/machine entity, the resulting creation accepting its new state due
to Pym's self-loathing of his human weaknesses such as his emotional
outbursts. The merged Ultron is defeated when Starfox forces him to love
himself, and he flies off into space as he is finally capable of
comprehending the horror of what he has become. A funeral service is
held in Pym's honor, during which Janet reflects that Pym's ability to
overcome his self-loathing and fears to be a hero prove that he was
worthy of his role in the Avengers.

Some months ago, Ant-Man helped Giant-Man into rescuing computer
technician Raz Malhotra from Egghead. Months later after the incident
where Hank and Ultron were fused together with Pym seemingly perishing
as a result of the fusion, Scott Lang received one of Hank's labs.
Recalling the encounter with Raz, Scott sent Raz a present in the form
of the Giant-Man suit.

As part of the All-New, All-Different  event, the Hank
Pym/Ultron resurfaced. While on his way back to Earth, the Hank
Pym/Ultron helped the crew of a spaceship that was being attacked by a
hostile insectoid alien. After coming aboard the spaceship, Hank Pym
introduced himself as well as his "friend" Ultron (who was now Pym's
armor rather than being merged to him) to the crew.


Powers and abilities

Hank Pym is a scientific genius with a Ph.D in biochemistry and
nanotechnology, and expertise in the fields of quantum physics,
robotics/cybernetics, artificial intelligence, and entomology. The
character discovered the subatomic "Pym particles" that enable mass to
be shunted or gained from an alternate dimension, thereby changing the
size of himself or other beings or objects. Pym is the creator of the
robot Ultron.

After constant experimentation with size-changing via ingested capsules
and particle-filled gas, Pym is eventually able to change size at will,
and mentally generate Pym particles to change the sizes of other living
beings or inanimate objects. Pym retains his normal strength when "ant"
size, and possesses greatly increased strength and stamina when in
"giant" form, courtesy of the increased mass. Pym's costume is synthetic
stretch fabric composed of unstable molecules and automatically adapts
to his shifting sizes.

The character also uses a cybernetic helmet for achieving rudimentary
communication with ants and other higher order insects. As Yellowjacket,
Pym wears artificial wings and has bio-blasters called "stingers" built
into his gloves. Pym also carries a variety of weaponry, provisions, and
scientific instruments, which are shrunken to the size of microchips and
stored in the pockets of his uniform.

After the death of his ex-wife Janet van Dyne, Pym took on the Wasp
identity in her honor. He equipped himself with bio-synthetic wings
and the ability to harness his body's bio-electrical energy as his "Wasp
stings".


Successors

There are a number of characters in the  universe that have also
used the "Pym particles" to effect size changing. These include Janet
van Dyne, Clint Barton, Bill Foster, Scott Lang, Erik
Josten, Rita DeMara, Cassandra "Cassie" Lang, Eric
O'Grady, Tom Foster, and Raz Malhotra.


Other versions

 1602

In the world of  1602, natural philosopher Henri le Pym is
forced by Baron von Octavius to devise a serum that would cure him of a
fatal disease. Pym is married to Janette.

The Last Avengers Story

In an alternate future in the miniseries The Last Avengers Story #1-2
(Nov. 1995), Ultron wishes for a decisive victory over the Avengers.
After eliminating the team, he has Hank Pym gather a new group. After
recruiting other heroes and mercenaries, Pym leads them to victory
though fatalities are heavy on both sides.

 Zombies

Hank Pym is featured in several of the  Zombies miniseries,
appearing as one of the cannibalistic zombies in  Zombies #1-5
(Feb.-June 2006),  Zombies 2 #1-5 (Dec. 2007 - April 2008) and
 Zombies Return #4 (Oct. 2009).

MC2

The MC2 imprint title A-Next, set in a futuristic alternate universe,
stars Henry Pym and Janet Pym's twin children (Hope Pym and Henry Pym
Jr.) who have turned into the supervillains Red Queen and Big Man
respectively.

Earth-5012

In this reality, Hank Pym is an intelligent, Hulk-like brute. He
also appears in issue #13.

Old Man Logan

In the post-apocalyptic "Old Man Logan" storyline, Hank Pym (as
Giant-Man) is one of the numerous superheroes killed by the Red Skull's
army of villains. Decades after his demise, a Connecticut settlement
dubbed "Pym Falls" is built around his massive skeleton. In
addition, his Ant-Man helmet is shown in the possession of a young boy
named Dwight, who uses it to command an army of ants in order to enforce
the payment of tolls across a bridge.

Ultimate 

The Ultimate  imprint version of Henry "Hank" Pym is portrayed as
a brilliant but mentally fragile scientist. He takes Prozac to battle
his mental instability and depressive episodes. He gains his Giant-Man
abilities after transfusing the blood of his mutant wife Janet Pym. The
character is expelled from the Ultimates after his abusive behavior ends
his marriage and his Giant-Man serum is used by S.H.I.E.L.D. to make an
entire Giant-Men team. Now a pariah, he briefly joins with both pseudo
heroes and then anti-American villains in his Ant-Man persona. The
character eventually rejoins the Ultimates in his Yellowjacket identity.
During the events of "Ultimatum" storyline, he sacrifices himself
against the Multiple Man's suicide bomber duplicates to save the
remaining Ultimates' lives. After his death, the character's various
formulas/devices are still in usage: the Giant-Man formula further
replicated by S.H.I.E.L.D. to have multiple Giant-Women agents while his
technology is eventually acquired by HYDRA.

 Adventures

Henry Pym appears in issue 13 of  Adventures: The Avengers as a
scientist working for Janet's father with no superhero identity, and was
the one who gave his wife superpowers. He is visited by Spider-Man and
Storm when Janet van Dyne (Giant-Girl in this continuity) falls under
insect mind-control. He tells them how to free her (severing the
antennae on her mask), gives her a new costume, and uses an insect
telepathy helmet (identical to his Earth-616 Ant-Man helmet) to create
an illusion of several giant-sized people, scaring the insects away. He
returns in issue 20, becoming Ant-Man. He not only joins the team but
begins a relationship with Janet.

 Apes

In the  Apes universe, Henry Pym is a gorilla named GRO-RILLA, a
member of the Ape-Vengers.


In other media

Television

[Hank Pym / Ant-Man in The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes.]

-   Ant-Man / Giant-Man appeared in the animated television series The
     Super Heroes, voiced by Tom Harvey.
-   Hank Pym's Goliath appearance made a non-voiced cameo appearance in
    the X-Men animated series episode "One Man's Worth (Part 1)".
-   Ant-Man / Giant-Man appeared in The Avengers: United They Stand,
    voiced by Rod Wilson. The decision to use Ant-Man as the Avengers'
    leader over more popular characters such as Captain America or Iron
    Man was met with derision by fans and the fact that Captain America,
    Thor, and Iron Man couldn't be used as main characters at the time.
-   Ant-Man appears in the Fantastic Four: World’s Greatest Heroes
    episode "World's Tiniest Heroes", voiced by John Payne.
-   Ant-Man appears in The Super Hero Squad Show episode "This Forest
    Green", voiced by Greg Grunberg.
-   Hank Pym appears as a central character in The Avengers: Earth's
    Mightiest Heroes, voiced by Wally Wingert. Under his Ant-Man
    and Giant-Man abilities simultaneously, he is initially a reluctant
    member of the Avengers for his wife Janet van Dyne and experiences
    guilt for Ultron's genocidal goals. After he hands over the Ant-Man
    suit to Scott Lang, his Yellowjacket alias makes his animated debut
    where he started focusing at fighting villains in this form after
    suffering a mental breakdown, becoming more aggressive and loses
    his pacifism. As Yellowjacket he also claims Hank Pym is dead and he
    had killed Pym.
-   Giant-Man appears in  Disk Wars: The Avengers, voiced by
    Yasunori Masutani.

Film

[Michael Douglas as Hank Pym in the 2015 film Ant-Man.]

-   Giant-Man / Ant-Man appears in the animated direct-to-video films
    Ultimate Avengers and Ultimate Avengers 2, voiced by Nolan
    North.
-   Hank Pym's son Henry Pym, Jr. appears in the animated
    direct-to-video film Next Avengers: Heroes of Tomorrow.
-   Michael Douglas portrays Hank Pym in the  Studios film
    Ant-Man. Dax Griffin stood in as a young version in a
    flashback sequence. In the film, Hank was formerly an agent
    of S.H.I.E.L.D. until his wife Janet van Dyne shrunk to the Quantum
    Realm during one of their missions and discovered that the
    organization was trying to replicate his Pym Particle formula. After
    quitting he builds his own company Pym Technologies, but is outed as
    CEO by his former protege Darren Cross and his estranged daughter
    Hope van Dyne. Although they still kept an eye on Cross of any
    suspicious activity, Cross comes close to perfecting Pym's formula
    and plans to sell the Yellowjacket suit, Hank manipulated former
    thief Scott Lang into stealing the suit and eventually instructing
    Lang to be the new Ant-Man to stop Cross. He refused to have Hope in
    danger despite his daughter's superior experience, afraid that he'd
    lose Hope like Janet. In the mid-credits scene, Hank presents an
    updated Wasp costume to Hope, deciding to give it to his daughter.

Video games

-   Giant-Man appeared as an assist character in the 1995 arcade game
    Avengers in Galactic Storm.
-   Hank Pym appears as an NPC in : Ultimate Alliance, voiced by
    Jerry Houser.
-   Yellowjacket appears as a boss character in : Ultimate
    Alliance 2, voiced by Wally Wingert.
-   Ant-Man makes a cameo appearance in Ultimate  vs. Capcom 3.
-   Ant-Man and Giant-Man are two separate playable characters in
     Super Hero Squad Online.
-   Hank Pym appears as an unlockable character in : Avengers
    Alliance.
-   Hank Pym appears in  Heroes, voiced again by Wally Wingert.
-   Ant-Man appears in Lego  Super Heroes, again voiced by
    Nolan North.
-   Ant-Man appears as a team-up character in Disney Infinity: 
    Super Heroes.
-   Giant-Man / Goliath is a playable character in : Future
    Fight.

Novel

-   Hank Pym appears in the novelization of Spider-Man 2. It's him
    instead of a nameless female scientist who asks Dr. Octo Octavius
    how he plans to control his metallic tentacles. Upon being informed
    of the inhibitor chip, he states having a cybernetic helmet which
    would make the process easier. After the failure of Octavius'
    experiment, Pym goes over to Otto to confirm he's alive, while
    implying that his wife Rosalie is dead. Additionally, Octavius
    described Pym as being a giant in a field where everyone else are
    ants.


Reception

Hank Pym was ranked as the 93rd greatest comic book character by
Wizard magazine. IGN listed Hank Pym as the 67th greatest comic
book hero, and 16th in their list of "The Top 50 Avengers".

