HAYWIRE is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books
published by .


Publication history

Haywire was a minor character from the original Squadron Supreme
series from . Like new additions to the Squadron Supreme,
his  counterpart, Vibe, was part of the Detroit-based Justice
League.


Fictional character biography

Haywire (Harold Danforth) has the ability to create and project strands
of 5mm diameter metallic "tanglewires". These wires can be created at
some distance from his body, and disappear if he loses consciousness.
Haywire was a member of Nighthawk's group of freedom fighters, the
Redeemers, whose purpose was to overthrow the government controlled by
the Squadron Supreme. During this time he was romantically involved with
fellow Redeemer Inertia. Haywire was one of the Redeemers who joined
the Squadron Supreme as a double agent in order to sabotage their
efforts at world conquest. He accompanied Lamprey and the Whizzer on a
tour of the hibernacle, and then led Lamprey into Redeemers headquarters
for deprogramming. With his fellow Redeemers, Haywire fought the
Squadron, forcing them to end their dictatorship over the United States
of "Other-Earth". Haywire battled the Whizzer during the huge battle.
After the battle, some of the surviving Redeemers joined the Squadron
Supreme, including Haywire.

Haywire worked with fellow Squadron members to prevent the destruction
of their universe by the Nth Man. Haywire witnesses the grisly death of
his girlfriend Inertia at the hands of the Nth Man. Because of the
events of that encounter, the Squadron Supreme became stranded on
"mainsteam" Earth. They relocated to Project: Pegasus headquarters.
Alongside the Shape, Haywire was mind-controlled by the Over-Mind into
battling Quasar to cover the Over-Mind's escape from Earth. Haywire
participated in Doctor Strange's failed attempt to return the Squadron
to their own Earth.

When the rest of the Squadron finally did return home, Haywire chose to
remain on -Earth. Sometime later, Haywire happened across a
battle between Thanos of Titan (self-styled god of death) and Mantis
(also known as the Celestial Madonna), as Thanos attempted to destroy
Quoi, her child (destined to become the Celestial Messiah). Haywire
tried to help Mantis and eventually, Mantis elicited help from Haywire
and an assemblage of Avengers in defeating Thanos's efforts to kill her
son. In the process, Haywire hoped to encounter the cosmic embodiment of
Death in order to bid it to restore Inertia to life. Ultimately, Haywire
got his chance, but Death did not respond to his pleas. Distraught and
obsessed, Haywire leapt into the form of Death itself and was
destroyed.


Powers and abilities

Haywire had the ability to psionically generate a steel-like
"tanglewire" filament from his fingertips which he can use for a variety
of purposes, including creating long grappling wires for locomotion,
vast quantities for trapping, entangling, or binding his opponents, or
forming simple shapes like spheres, cubes, and cones. The tanglewire can
be sharp or safe, according to his will. The tanglewire is extremely
tensile and durable; only omnium and adamantium can cut through it. The
tanglewire is resistant to extremes of temperature and pressure. The
tanglewire will remain in existence indefinitely or until he consciously
wills it to dissipate, and will remain in existence if he is rendered
unconscious. There is no known limit to the amount of tanglewire he can
generate. He wears padded leather gloves to enable him to hold onto his
tanglewire when necessary.

Haywire was an athletic man, who was coached in hand-to-hand combat by
Nighthawk, and later by his fellow Squadron Supreme members. He was
skilled in lock picking and guitar playing.

