HAZMAT is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by .


Publication history

Hazmat first appeared in Avengers Academy #1 (June 2010) and was
created by Christos Gage and Mike McKone. She appeared as a regular
character in the series through its final issue #39 (Jan 2013).

Hazmat appears in Avengers Arena, a new series by Dennis Hopeless and
Kev Walker.

Hazmat appears as one of the main characters in Avengers Undercover
beginning in 2014.


Fictional character biography

Hazmat discovered her superhuman abilities when her boyfriend of many
months went into a seizure while making out with her. It's discovered
that her body generates radiation, but the source of the ability is
unknown. Her family all but abandons her and her boyfriend dumps her.
Norman Osborn approaches and offers to cure her, but in the end exploits
her.

Avengers Academy

During the Heroic Age storyline, Hazmat is recruited into the Avengers
Academy along with five other students who have been affected by Osborn.
She and the rest of the class are led to believe they're among those
most likely to become heroes, but they quickly uncover that files that
say they're most likely to become villains. Due to their unique
situations, Hazmat later begins a romantic relationship with Ken/Mettle
as he's one of the only people who can physically touch her. Reptil
plants some doubts about their relationships after X-23 becomes a
student and starts teaching Mettle, but this is a ploy by Reptil, who's
been mentally replaced by his older self. Hazmat shows a great deal
of care for Ken as she's willing to join someone she believes is evil
and manipulative just to “cure” him of his powers. Hazmat and Mettle
do indeed lose their powers, but when the students face off against
Jeremy Briggs, they take the antidote to the cure to help battle
Briggs. Afterward, Hazmat and Mettle consummate their
relationship. Hazmat later confronts the faculty over how she and the
other students were enrolled due to their villainous potential, but
Hawkeye tells her that she and the others have proven themselves. The
faculty then announce that the students have graduated the Academy.

Avengers Arena

As part of the  NOW!_ event within the pages of Avengers Arena,
Hazmat, Reptil, Mettle, X-23, and a dozen others are kidnapped by
Arcade. Arcade takes them to Murderworld, where Hazmat watches Mettle
die to save her. She is attacked by X-23 on the 29th day. In a fit of
rage, she then attacks Deathlocket when she tries to show sympathy
toward Hazmat regarding Mettle's sacrifice. Hazmat then takes a camp
with X-23 while an unseen predator stalks the teens. Eventually, Arcade
unleashes X-23's trigger scent on the group and Reptil evacuates Hazmat
to the beach after being burned by Deathlocket (under Apex's
control). They wait on the beach until Day 25, when Nara, Cullen,
Anachronism, X-23, and Cammi arrive, having just fled from Apex.
Hazmat is very much jaded and loopy from Mettle's sacrifice and wants
nothing more than to play on the beach, but Reptil snaps her out of her
funk and she goes back into Murderworld with the others to find Nico.
However, things got worse when Cullen's monster side known as Glartrox
was unleashed. Before the fight,Hazmat and X-23 investigated a possible
Mettle sighting, only to find a robot filled with trigger scent.
Hazmat was wounded and X-23 fought Cullen's Glartrox form. After the
battle was over, X-23 continued to injure Hazmat, who began to lose
control over her radiation. Eventually, she began to overload and
Reptil swam her out to sea to let her explode. As a result, Hazmat now
has complete control of her radiation and no longer has to wear her
containment suit.

Avengers Undercover

Once news broke about Arcade's kidnappings, Hazmat and the other Murder
World Survivors became infamous. Hazmat tried to stay incognito, but she
instead blew up at a group of teens in a diner for insulting her. Now
that Hazmat can control her radiation, she now sports a yellow hoodie
with the hazmat logo. Hazmat tried to stay out of the spotlight at
first. However, when Cammi and Anachronism reveal Bloodstone's gone
missing, all the survivors team up to head to Bagalia to find him. Once
they do, he reveals that he enjoys life among the villains, and the
others, minus Cammi, start to enjoy it as well. Hazmat and Anachronism
dance, with Hazmat comforting him about arguing with Bloodstone. When
Cammi tries to tell the others to leave, Bloodstone instead has Daimon
Hellstrom teleport the group to Arcade's latest party so they can kill
him. After being stuck in catatonic shock, Hazmat finally kills
Arcade by blowing him to bits with a concentrated radiation burst.


Powers and abilities

Hazmat constantly emits harmful radiation from her body. As a result,
she is forced to wear a protective suit at all times when around others.
The suit is not simply meant for containment, however, as it allows her
to focus her radiation into energy bolts and other forms.

Although Hazmat's superhuman abilities manifested during her teens
without obvious explanation, it has been confirmed that she is not a
mutant.

