HEATHER HUDSON is a fictional character appearing in American comic
books published by . The character was created by 
Comics for their series called Exiles.


Fictional character biography

A counterpart of sorts both to Vindicator and to Walter Langkowski, the
Exiles member Heather Hudson was a Sasquatch from an alternate universe.
This Sasquatch was a black Canadian woman, Heather Hudson. Like the
original Sasquatch, Heather gained her powers by making a deal with the
Tanaraq, while doing research with gamma radiation. However, Tanaraq
made her forget her deal and she believed her powers were caused by
radiation rays.

Believing herself to be of use to her country with her superpowers and
her scientific genius, Heather joined her reality's version of Alpha
Flight. She was with the original program who sought out a feral
Wolverine who was lost in the wilderness. Being the resident scientist,
the task of rehabilitation was given to Heather, and after a few years
Logan was not only rehabilitated, but the two had fallen in love and got
married. They happily led the team, but when a Weapon X implant caused
him to go insane Heather was forced to kill him.

She mourned for months, but James Hudson comforted her and they
eventually got married. Sasquatch was still with Alpha Flight when she
became 'unhinged in time' and was sent to join the Exiles.

Recently, her forgotten deal with Tanaraq came back to haunt her. Due to
being in a magic-influenced universe on one of their missions, Tanaraq
took over Heather's body and replaced her. The Exiles were able to
separate the two and banish Tanaraq thanks to the help of another
reality's Shaman, but Heather was left powerless. As a result, when the
Exiles teleported to their next mission Heather was nowhere to be seen.
The Exiles assumed that she was sent home.

She was later found in the Stasis Gallery—a type of cryogenic chamber—of
Panoptichron, where Beak freed her to help with Morph and Mimic's
injuries. She was taken hostage by Deadpool when Blink, Morph, and
Sabretooth were visiting a giant monster reality, but Mimic saved her.

Even though she remains powerless, she decided to stay at the
Panoptichron as a technical advisor and mission control to the Exiles
team, giving the Exiles any information they need about a specific
reality (sometimes through the Tallus and sometimes through the
projection of the Timebroker). After accidentally unleashing the reality
warping madman known as Proteus on all of the multiverse, Heather made a
deal with Mojo for the services of Longshot to be a member of the team
in the hopes that his good luck would counteract Proteus' abilities.
With Proteus trapped in Morph's body, Heather recently freed all those
in the Stasis Gallery and sent them home to their native realities for
proper burials with notes explaining their departure. Heather was also
recently able to take some much needed time to visit her husband in her
native reality. However, the Timebreakers decided that the Exiles had
outlived their use and exiled them to Heather's reality. However, after
trying several other teams with little success they decided to bring
them back on board.

After thinking the Exiles died on Earth-1720, Heather became very
depressed, drinking and trashing the Crystal Palace. After snapping out
of it, Heather cleaned up the mess she made and went home. While there
she became pregnant, essentially putting her out of commission. Months
later Blink and Morph visit her to tell her they're alive, discovering
her pregnancy. However, months after that, Heather is called on again by
Morph when the New Exiles team becomes immersed within the Crystal
Palace. Heather decides to re-form a new team of Exiles (one with its
members snatched from the moment of death), and Blink is placed in
charge.

