HEAVY HITTERS is a fictional superhero team in the 
universe. The group of heroes first appears as the official Nevada Fifty
State Initiative team and was created by Christos Gage and Stefano
Caselli.


Fictional history

After having dealt with a Skrull infiltrator on the Desert Stars
Initiative team, 3-D Man and the Skrull Kill Krew travel to Nevada along
with Desert Stars member Komodo. There, they kill a Skrull that had
infiltrated the Heavy Hitters team as an unnamed member. Hardball leaves
with these heroes to deal with the Skrulls on the other teams.
Hardball later betrays and quits the team, and becomes a leader of
HYDRA.

After Norman Osborn assumes control of the Initiative, he places Prodigy
in charge of the Heavy Hitters, and transfers Gravity to the Great Lakes
Avengers. The criminal Boomerang is added to the team, using the name
"Outback". When Nonstop tries to quit and escapes, the other team
members chase her and capture her. When a news crew arrives, Outback
attempts to frame Nonstop as a thief. Prodigy reveals "Outback" as
Boomerang and punches him out, declaring that the Heavy Hitters are
seceding from the Fifty State Intitiative. The team waits for Osborn's
repraisal out in the open, intending for the fight to be caught on
camera. Force of Nature attack the team, and are soon joined by the
U-Foes, Freedom Force, members of the Shadow Initiative, and some
members of the Hood's army. The Initiative members then ganged up on
Prodigy while Telemetry and Nonstop capture footage of the combat and
upload it to YouTube. With the help of the Avengers Resistance, Nonstop
and Telemetry leave the country to go into hiding, taking Debrii with
them.

After Osborn is taken down during the events of SIEGE, Prodigy is
released from prison and honored for his fight against Osborn.

During the Fear Itself storyline, members of the Heavy Hitters appear
at a meeting held by Prodigy regarding magical hammers that have crashed
into the earth.


Members

-   Hardball
-   Nonstop
-   Telemetry

Former Members

-   Gravity
-   Outback
-   Prodigy

