HELLION (JULIAN KELLER) is a fictional character, a mutant appearing in
American comic books published by . He was a member of the
student body of the Xavier Institute before its closing and is a member
of the X-Men's training squad. He first appeared in New Mutants, vol.
2 #2.


Fictional character biography

New Mutants, vol. 2/Academy X

Born in Los Angeles, California, to parents who managed to work their
way out of poverty to become billionaires, Julian was sent to the Xavier
Institute in hopes that he would learn to use his powers with some
discretion. Hellion has quickly adopted an attitude of superiority while
training at the Xavier Institute that has annoyed some of his
classmates. A fast favorite of headmistress Emma Frost, who sees in him
great potential for heroism as well as a frightening disposition for
personal gain and villainy, Julian named himself 'Hellion' in tribute to
the former White Queen's first class of students (who had been killed by
Trevor Fitzroy).

Hellion has demonstrated quite a significant interest in Sofia Mantega,
co-leader of the rival New Mutants squad. The two different
personalities had a flirtatious relationship from the beginning, but
also often clashed when it came to ideals and beliefs. The two had quite
an effect on each other. While Sofia became more rebellious, even
helping the Hellions attempt to break Wither out of jail, Julian became
more sensitive and more comfortable with his emotions. However, when
Sofia rejected Julian's invitation to the school dance, Julian dated all
three of the Stepford Cuckoos. By the end of the night, the pair
eventually reunited on the dance floor.

Despite his relationship with Sofia, he is particularly hard on her New
Mutant teammates like David Alleyne, the New Mutants' other leader, whom
he views as possessing a particularly useless mutant power and as a
genuine competitor as a leader and strategist. However, when the Blob
attacked the school, Julian followed David's plan of attack.

He had an on-and-off friendship with Elixir, initially befriending him
until he learned of his past as a Reaver. However, they have since
reconciled and have a more friendly and supportive relationship.

Despite his tumultuous relationship with the New Mutants, he was the one
who encouraged Sofia to put her squad back together when they were on
the brink of disbanding.

Post M-Day

In the aftermath of M-Day, the previous squad system has been abandoned
due to the diminished number of powered students. Those left have been
placed to join the only squad that would train under the X-Men, called
the New X-Men team. Just prior to the competition, Emma asked Julian to
make sure that X-23 was eliminated early. However, when given the chance
to knock her out, he saved her instead, because he owed her for doing
the same during a session in the "Danger Cave." As a result, Emma placed
Surge as team leader to punish Julian. Surge and Hellion had a well
documented mutual dislike for each other, which only intensified after
M-Day. When Sofia overheard Julian saying the depowered David Alleyne
no longer belonged at the Institute, the also now human Mantega ended
her relationship with Keller. She abruptly left the Institute and left
Hellion angry and distraught. Julian and Sofia have both been known to
dream of each other since Sofia left the school.

Mercury Falling

Julian, having trouble with his powers, is practicing with Beast in the
Danger Room when he accidentally blows a hole in the floor. After taking
a shower, he goes looking for Mercury when he comes across Loa,
Rockslide, and Anole watching the Young Avengers on TV. He eventually
finds a bloodied X-23 and finds out Mercury has been kidnapped by the
Facility and tags along. X-23 uses her underworld contacts to find
Mercury’s captors and Julian is horrified when Laura kills people
working for the people who created her and he tells her not to. They
head to the Facility and are confronted by Kimura and a squad of guards.
After a brief fight, Julian throws Kimura a few miles away and together
they find Mercury; when they are confronted by a bunch of Predator Xs,
one injures his shoulder.

Quest for Magik

Alongside Nori, Hellion is one of the students who wasn't transported to
Limbo. While he and Surge argue about his reckless disregard for her
leadership by leaving with X-23 to save Mercury and not telling her, the
other students inside the X-Mansion get transported to Limbo while they
are still outside. Trance used her powers to get a message to the two.
She told them that they were taken to hell and then she said "Belasco"
and disappeared. Surge and Hellion went to the O*N*E. They found out
that Amanda Sefton was in a coma in Germany. The two demanded that they
be the ones to go see her. Later Hellion, Surge, and a Sentinel are
transported to Limbo by Sefton. They are greeted by thousands if not
millions of demons. After Illyana comes to her senses, she teleports
everyone back to the X-Mansion.

World War Hulk

Hellion is one of the students that goes up against the Hulk when he
shows up at the Institute. He uses his powers to pin down the Hulk in
the first attack but Hulk knocks him away. When Hellion goes in for a
second attack he is the first to be defeated. Hulk realizes he is a
telekinetic so he gets him out of the way. Hulk smashes his hands
together which creates a boom which knocks out Hellion, rupturing his
eardrums.

Children of X-Men

While practicing his powers, Julian complains to Mercury about his
powers and says he can't deal with anything smaller than a refrigerator,
and because  Girl is still in space, he is one of the last
telekinetics on the planet. Afterwards, he and Mercury are with the
Stepford Cuckoos trying to locate the youngest mutant on the planet when
Emma Frost asks to see them both for an interview. He reminds Emma about
her bizarre trust speech and how she has blown them off since the
Purifier attack. He says that she is just putting a little distance
between them in case they don't make it

Later, the students all gather to find out who the youngest student is.
During the meeting, Nori kisses Julian in front of Prodigy. Julian
pushes her off and notices an upset X-23 leave. He flies off outside and
Dust catches up to him. He tells her his best friend is dead, the girl
he thought he loves is gone, his mentor flipped out, he can’t stop
thinking about a girl who literally scares him, and now he has to deal
with Nori. He says it's too hard and while he used to be so sure he has
no idea now and there is no one to show him. He then thanks Sooraya for
being there. He then walks in on Nori and David in the middle of a
fight. He throws David against the ceiling and when he asks Nori if she
is OK, David hits him from behind and injures him. He then tells David
that he 'didn't kiss her.' to which David replies, 'I know.' He is then
told he should go see Elixir about his injuries.

Messiah Complex

While recovering from her injuries, Blindfold predicts that Hellion will
be injured. Some of the New X-Men decide to launch a pre-emptive strike
against the Purifers. After spying on the Purifers, they are ambushed by
the Reavers and Lady Deathstrike, who critically wounds Hellion.
Pixie then manages to teleport the team out and are spread between
Washington and the Institute. He was later seen aboard the X-Jet with
Iceman and the New X-Men during the Sentinel attack on the mansion being
treated by Mercury. After getting him to what’s left of the
infirmary, Beast and Prodigy manage to stabilize him.

Later, when Predator X attacks the mansion, Hellion is saved by the New
X-Men, and Pixie teleports the other New X-Men to Muir Island.

Divided We Stand

Julian wakes up in a hotel room, still hooked up to medical equipment,
after experiencing flashbacks of his injury. He finds Emma Frost
watching over him, who soon informs Julian that the X-Men are no more
and that the school is gone. Julian immediately panics, claiming Cessily
and Sooraya would never have left him, and asks where Laura is, but Emma
tells him that everyone is being taken care of. Julian tells Emma that
she is taking away everything from him again and Emma puts him to sleep.
When Julian awakens again, Emma is gone and he tries to go back home,
only to find his parents have put their house up for sale and moved
without telling him. Julian begins to search for Magneto, soon finding
him and claiming that Magneto needs him.

Magneto refuses, telling him that he knows Julian is extremely hurt by
the people he loved, so much so that he wants to hurt them back by
joining their "greatest enemy." Magneto leaves Julian, telling him to
enjoy his time off because a new war for mutant-kind will come soon
enough.

Kidnapping

Julian is later kidnapped along with Boom Boom and Surge by the Leper
Queen and her Sapien League. The Leper Queen injects him with a modified
version of the Legacy Virus. After X-Force comes to save the mutants,
they find out Surge and Hellion have been sent to the United Nations
building. Before Wolverine can kill the Leper Queen and save Julian,
Nori, and Boom-Boom, X-Force is teleported out by Cyclops. However,
after completing their mission X-Force travel back in time and head to
the United Nations Building to save Julian and Nori, while X-23 saves
Boom Boom. Elixir cures Julian and Nori of the Legacy Virus, saving
them.

Utopia

When anti-mutant protesters led by Simon Trask march in San Francisco in
support of Proposition X, Julian and a number of other mutants attempt
to stall their demonstration. When Hellion taunts the protesters, Trask
incites a riot. During the chaos, Julian physically assaults Trask on
national television. The event calls Norman Osborn and his Dark Avengers
to the city to restore order. In the process, Osborn forms his own team
of X-Men led by Hellion's former mentor, Emma Frost, and institutes a
curfew on the city. Believing this to be a last stand for mutant rights,
Hellion gathers a group at a bar owned by the former X-Villain Avalanche
with the intent to break curfew and get arrested on TV in non-violent
protest. The group fails to make its intended point as Match torches the
surrounding area with his powers, and Hellion is arrested by Emma Frost
and her Dark X-Men. They are taken into custody after a battle.

Later he is, along with all the other prisoners, saved when Emma and
Namor betray Osborn and is currently residing with the rest of the X-Men
on Utopia.

Necrosha

Hellion is seen with Surge and Prodigy, fighting the resurrected Rusty
Collins.

Second Coming

Hellion participates in a battle to protect the mutant messiah, Hope,
and the remaining mutants on Utopia against Bastion's Nimrod Class
Sentinels from the future. During the fight he is overpowered and is
injured, losing both of his hands and most of his right forearm. He is
placed on life support prior to being shipped to Namor's underwater
Atlantean colony for reasons of safety and protection. He is
eventually stabilized, but cannot participate in the remaining
battle. After the Nimrod fleet is destroyed and Hope defeats
Bastion, Hellion confronts her, bitter about his injuries, but is
rebuffed by Magneto.

Fables of the Reconstruction

[Hellion using his strong telekinetic abilities to telekinetically
control his artificial hands.] Following the event's of Second Coming,_
Hellion is with Kavita Rao, testing metal hands created by Madison
Jefferies; however, his telekinetic energy apparently interferes with
the operation of cyborg hands or even conventional prosthetic hands,
since none can be adapted to his use. After destroying her lab, Rogue
comes to collect him to help out rebuild in San Francisco. During the
reconstruction of a building, Hellion is resentful of Hope Summers,
blaming her for his injuries. While taking out his anger on some old
walls he starts becoming reckless and almost hits Hope and a young girl
helping her. Hope goes to contront Julian when Karima flies towards the
trio and begins attacking them.

During the ensuing battle, Hellion's powers manifest uniquely as he is
able to feel the telekinetic wave and the objects it touches down to
their sub-atomic structures, moving it through the empty space within
atoms to hit a target behind them. After momentarily disposing of
Hellion when he is distracted by the other X-Men who think he initiated
the attack, Karima defeats the team and begins procedures to kill them
off, but Hellion engages her a second time in a short and brutal assault
fueled by his repressed rage, crushing her in battle. Her human side
briefly reasserts itself during the fight, asking Hellion to put her out
of her misery and stop her from harming others. He does so, delivering a
telekinetic onslaught that leaves her in a coma and possibly brain dead.
During a conversation with Cyclops, Hellion shows no remorse for his
actions and is informed he is on probation. If he cannot control
himself, he will either have to leave Utopia or be locked up in the
Brig.

X-23

In the X-23 series, Hellion and X-23 address their previous closeness
more openly since the events of New X-Men, while he defends her from
the scorn of her former New X-Men team mates, who are wary of her due to
her involvement with X-Force. After a fire breaks out at a half-way
house X-23 was sent to, Hellion goes to visit her in the infirmary on
Utopia. When he enters her room, he walks in on what appears to be X-23
stabbing Wolverine. In reality however, Logan's soul has been sent to
hell and his body is possessed by a demon. The demon started the fire in
the half-way house, murdered its occupants, and has been invading X-23's
dreams. While X-23 tries to explain, the demon-possessed Wolverine stabs
Hellion in the back. To save his life, X-23 bargains with the demon.

Hellion has left Utopia with Wolverine to Westchester to the Jean Grey
Academy, which is now being headed by Wolverine.

8 months after the events of Secret Wars, Hellion is shown dying of
the M-Pox disease after accidentally coming in contact with the Terrigen
Mist. He attacks New Attilan in retaliation, but is defeated by Synapse.
Hellion is then taken into custody by the Inhumans, with Medusa
promising that he will be given medical attention.


Mutant abilities

Hellion is an unusually strong telekinetic. He is able to fly at
supersonic speeds, create telekinetic force fields, unleash powerful
blasts of telekinetic force, and levitate and manipulate objects from
afar. His telekinetic aura is colored light green and glows around his
hands, body, and the objects he telekinetically moves and controls.

When Emma unlocked subconscious blocks on his mutant ability, Hellion
was able to reach a flight speed several times the speed of sound,
faster than one of the O*N*E Sentinel pilots believed possible and
destroyed a Sentinel by telekinetically hurling an armored wagon through
it, but was severely injured from the physical strain afterward. With
this lack of focus, Hellion has difficulty using his telekinetic
abilities with fine control such as lifting up a paper clip but has no
problem in raw power when it comes to destroying the entire floor that
the paper clip resides on. During his battle with Bastion, he said he
felt his telekinesis get stronger and he can now control matter at a
molecular level. This was proven when he sent a telekinetic blast
through Hope and into Omega Sentinel without harming Hope, but
completely destroying Omega Sentinel.

In contrast to most other possessors of extremely strong and powerful
telekinesis, Hellion tends to focus and channel his telekinetic energy
almost exclusively through his hands, very rarely projecting it as a
free flow output directly from his brain. After losing his hands,
Hellion's control over his telekinesis has greatly strengthened and
magnified, he used his exceptionally powerful telekinesis to feed
himself and his telekinetic aura now emanates from his brain. After the
Age of X, Dr. Kavita Rao observes that Julian has actually benefited
from the experience. She notes that the perception of living a lifetime
in that world has allowed Hellion to refine his far much stronger
telekinetic abilities to fully control and manipulate the artificial
hands created for him, a feat that normally could not be accomplished in
Julian's condition before the Age of X reality.


Other versions

House of M

Hellion was a Junior S.H.I.E.L.D. operative, part of Dani Moonstar's
Hellions squad, and was operating under the codename Scion (the name
Hellion was chosen to impress Emma Frost. In this reality, Emma was
never his adviser. It is unknown why he chose the name Scion in this
reality). He was involved with a fellow-Hellion known as Wind Dancer in
this reality.

Age of X

Hellion is a member of the Force Warriors, a select group of
telekinetics who rebuild the "Force Walls" (telekinetic shields that
protect Fortress X) on a daily basis. Prior to arriving at Fortress
X, Hellion was on the run before being attacked by soldiers. During the
attack, a laser intended to kill him instantly succeeded in severing his
hands and forearms. To replace his lost hands, Hellion utilizes a pair
of metal hands that he manipulates with his telekinesis.


In other media

Television

-   Hellion appears in the Wolverine and the X-Men episode _"Future
    X"_ voiced by Roger Craig Smith. He appears as a member of Professor
    X's future X-Men team. He returns in the episodes "Badlands" and
    "Rover" with Professor X, Marrow, Vanisher, Bishop and Domino. He
    maintains his incredibly strong abilities of telekinesis as well as
    his trademark light green telekinetic aura.


In popular culture

-   Hellion and his relationship with X-23 is referenced in the MC chris
    song "Nrrrd Grrrl": "X-23 and Hellion, odd couple, to be kind"

