HEPZIBAH is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by . She is a member of the intergalactic
enforcers known as the Starjammers and currently a member of the Uncanny
X-Men. The name of her species, Mephitisoid, is derived from the word
Mephitidae, the scientific classification for skunks, which her
species noticeably resembles.


Publication history

Dave Cockrum created the Starjammers with the intent of having them star
in their own series. However, when he submitted the concept for 's
two try-out series,  Spotlight and  Premiere, he was
repeatedly informed that these series were booked for two years solid.
Running out of patience, Cockrum showed the Starjammers to X-Men
writer Chris Claremont, and convinced him to use the characters for this
series. She first appeared in X-Men #107 (October 1977).


Fictional character biography

Origin

A member of the Mephitisoid species, HEPZIBAH was born on the planet
Tryl'sart, while under Shi'ar Imperial Rule. Imprisoned by the authority
of the then Shi'ar Emperor D'Ken, brother of Deathbird and Lilandra of
the Royal House of Neramani, she first met Corsair (Christopher Summers)
for the first time on the prison labor world Alisbar. Summers rescued
her from a particularly gruesome death sentence (to be eaten alive at a
banquet), prompting her to swear an eternal bond to him. The two met
fellow prisoners Raza Longknife and Ch'od, and, after escaping Alzibar,
the four of them formed the Starjammers. Summers, using the name
"Corsair" in tribute to the science fiction adventurers he had admired
during his youth, quickly earned the three aliens' respect and became
the group's leader, eventually also winning the heart of Hepzibah,
becoming her lover. It was Corsair who gave her the nickname "Hepzibah"
(after the character of Mam'selle Hepizbah from the comic strip Pogo),
because her Mephitisoid name consists of a series of scents impossible
to reproduce in spoken language.

Encounters with the X-Men

Hepzibah and the Starjammers teamed up with the X-Men on multiple
occasions. The first time, the Starjammers came to the aid of the X-Men
against D'Ken's Imperial Guard. Later, with the other Starjammers,
she fought off an alien attack on the HMSS Starjammer starship.
After that, she helped save Wolverine's life in outer space, and then
engaged in mock combat with Carol Danvers. Hepzibah and the
Starjammers helped the New Mutants neutralize the threat of the
Magus.

Together with Ch'od, she sought the "map-rod" holding information on the
location of the "Phalkon" power source. The Phalkon turned out to be the
Phoenix. She and the Starjammers were attacked by Deathbird's Shi'ar
starships. With the other Starjammers, she first met Excalibur on Earth
and aided a rebellion against Deathbird on a Shi'ar border world.

Later, she was captured by Warskrulls and impersonated by one of them,
until she was freed by the X-Men.

Other encounters

During the Kree/Shi'ar War, she battled Wonder Man and the Vision while
escorting the Shi'ar nega-bomb to the Kree Empire. With Raza, she
accepted an assignment from the former Kree admiral to kill the Black
Knight. With the Starjammers, she visited the Avengers and Binary on
Earth. She was thwarted in her attempt to poison the Black Knight, and
the plan was foiled. She then returned with the Starjammers to the
Shi'ar Empire.

Hepzibah also aided the Hulk in rescuing some of the Hulk's people from
the alien forces of Troyjan. The Silver Surfer personally saved her
life, an incident which led her to believe she simply intimidated the
forces threatening her.

The Rise and Fall of The Shi'ar Empire

After Corsair reunited with his son Havok, and the Starjammers
participated in a conflict between Lilandra's and D'Ken's forces,
Corsair was killed by his own son Vulcan. Hepzibah raided the X-Men's
stolen Shi'ar ship's weapons locker and was ready to take vengeance on
Vulcan. However, she was forced to return with the repowered Professor
X, Warpath, Darwin, and Nightcrawler when Lilandra, hoping to save her
beloved Xavier from death and protect some of the X-Men (believing that
the battle was not going well) locked the ship into a jump course for
Earth. Consequently, Hepzibah, separated from her fellow Starjammers, is
currently residing with the X-Men on Earth, with no foreseeable way to
return to Shi'ar space to help the Starjammers and Lilandra continue to
fight Vulcan.

Member of the X-Men

Since she is stuck on Earth and has nowhere else to go, Hepzibah joins
Professor X's team of X-Men. She and Warpath have already created a bond
of sorts, with Hepzibah remarking that his presence has helped her
through her mourning of Corsair. Together, they confront one of the
X-Mansion's guardian Sentinels when Caliban, a long time X-Men ally,
runs onto the grounds.

She is seen in an altered standard X-Uniform and entering the Morlock
Tunnels alongside Warpath, Storm, and Caliban. As a group, they are
attempting to discover the reason for the Morlocks' increased activity,
which has included the capturing of X-Men ward Leech. Hepzibah, as a
furred female with enhanced senses, has multiple problems with the
sewers. Hepzibah's name has been written on a Morlock wall, along with
the names of the other X-Men team members.

Warpath and Hepzibah continue to try to track the Morlocks but the
subterranean environment of the Morlock tunnels suddenly triggers
Hepzibah's primal instincts, causing her to immediately go into heat as
she is now newly single after the death of Corsair, her previous mate.
She tells an astonished Warpath that her species "burrows to nest" and
then tries to mate with him, but he refuses saying that it was neither
the time nor place, as they were in the middle of a mission. They are
then interrupted by a surprise attack of the very Morlocks they were
attempting to track.

Later after the conflict with the Morlocks, she speaks with Cyclops at
the X-Manshion, where he accepts her having chosen Warpath as her new
mate.

World War Hulk

Hepzibah is one of the X-Men who answers the Stepford Cuckoos' call for
help when the Hulk attacks Professor Xavier.

Messiah Complex

Hepzibah disables one of the giant robot O*N*E Sentinels after they
become corrupted and attack the X-Mansion. She then becomes a member of
the new incarnation of X-Force. After checking a Cooperstown
Hospital for Cable, they track him to the Canadian wilderness where the
team gets into a fight with the newly re-formed Reavers. When
Caliban is killed, Warpath becomes overprotective of Hepzibah telling
her this isn't her fight only to be told off by her and later
Wolverine.

Later, X-Force tracks the mutant child to Muir Island where it is being
guarded by the Acolytes and the Marauders. They manage to hold them
off for some time when the rest of the X-Teams arrive. When New
X-Men member Pixie teleports Predator X to the island, Cyclops orders
X-Force to take it out. Hepzibah is one of the X-Force members to engage
Predator X; Predator X sprays her with acid hurting her arm. She is then
seen standing around Professor X's body.

Divided We Stand

Archangel goes to San Francisco, California, to meet up with Hepzibah,
Warpath, and Iceman. All four are caught in the effects of a city-wide
illusion created by Martinique Jason, who has used her powers to
transform the city into a hippie paradise. Jason sends Hepzibah, now
calling herself "Lady Kitten," and the others to confront Cyclops and
Emma Frost.

Manifest Destiny

Hepzibah relocates with the X-Men to San Francisco. She is shown
infuriated at a telephone machine while on a long-distance call to
Warpath (who is in Archangel's ranch in Colorado) as she can't hear him,
but the reality is that an angst-ridden Warpath is just remaining silent
because even though he still wants to speak to her, he is overcome with
guilt and shame for all the killing he has done in the name of mutant
survival as a member of Wolverine's version of X-Force.

She has been seen in the background of Utopia, having gone to the Island
with the X-Men.

Deportation

When Henry Gyrich is made co-director of S.W.O.R.D., he organizes all
aliens living on Earth to be deported. While at a bar in San Francisco,
Hepzibah is drugged by undercover S.W.O.R.D. agents and taken away by
them. Her disappearance among the X-Men leads Cyclops and Emma Frost to
contact Beast and Abigail Brand about why S.W.O.R.D. has taken her away
to be deported. Hepzibah and the other aliens help save S.W.O.R.D.
from an invasion and depose Gyrich. All of the aliens are returned to
their respective homes, with Hepzibah going to stay in Utopia, the
new base of the X-Men.

Avengers vs X-Men

An apparently single-again Hepzibah becomes openly flirtatious with
other males, going so far as to aggressively proposition Namor for
casual sex, even in the company of an amazed Sunspot amidst an impending
war between the X-Men and the Avengers over Hope Summers; she later
giddily discusses Namor's sexual performance with the Queen of Tabusa
Rasa (a previous sexual conquest of Namor turned X-Men ally) even within
audible earshot of both Namor and Sunspot.

 Now

Hepzibah is seen again much later in space, where she has been reunited
with a mysteriously-resurrected Corsair, and the two of them are on an
extended vacation with the younger time-displaced teenage version of
Cyclops from All New X-Men. Scott calls her "his dad's girlfriend who is
an alien cat-skunk-person-thing" and also his "almost-stepmother" who is
"rather wonderful, honestly". Corsair later reveals to Scott, via
flashback, that Hepzibah was responsible for his resurrection by
convincing the rest of the Starjammers to take his corpse to an alien
planet where he was brought back to life. However the process involved
him being converted into a somewhat techno-organic cyborg who must now
regularly ingest pills containing nano-machines in order to remain
alive.


Powers and abilities

Relative to a human, Hepzibah possesses enhanced agility, speed,
reflexes, coordination, balance, hyper-keen senses, and superhumanly
acute night vision and sense of smell. Mephitisoids also have
retractable claws, and the ability to emit specific mind/mood-altering
pheromones at will.

Hepzibah is a brilliant natural athlete and acrobat, and skilled
hand-to-hand combatant, trained in various forms of armed and unarmed
combat known in the Shi'ar galaxy. She is also an expert marksman, and
is knowledgeable in the operation of a wide variety of ship-sized
weaponry. She is often armed with Shi'ar energy guns.


Appearance

As a member of the Mephitisoid race, Hepzibah's features are supposed to
resemble that of a humanoid skunk, with a huge skunk-like tail and fur
having the black-and-white coloring pattern of an Earth skunk. However,
modern  artists have given her a more cat-like appearance, often
making her tail much smaller and making her fur all-white by removing
the black markings of her coat altogether. Ironically, in her modern
appearances, Hepzibah's ears are now actually closer to a skunk as they
are now more rounded and on the sides of her head while in her classic
appearances, Hepzibah's ears were closer to a cat as they were more
pointed and on the top of her head.


In other media

Television

-   Hepzibah appeared in the "Phoenix Saga" of the X-Men
    animated series. She appears as a member of the Starjammers. In
    reference to their relationship in the comics, one scene shows her
    and Corsair sharing a kiss. She re-appears with the other
    Starjammers in "Orphan's End" in which an uncredited actress
    provides some dialogue.

