HERCULES is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books
published by . The character first appears in Journey into
Mystery Annual #1 (1965) and was created by writer-editor Stan Lee and
artist/co-plotter Jack Kirby.

Debuting in the Silver Age of Comic Books, the character is based on
Heracles of Greek mythology, although the name "Hercules" is associated
with the version from Roman mythology. The character has starred in
three self-titled limited series and been a perennial member of the
superhero team the Avengers, appearing in each of the three titles. In
2008, Hercules debuted in his own series titled The Incredible
Hercules. The character was ranked 21st in IGN's list of "The Top 50
Avengers", and has appeared in various forms of media including
television series and video games.


Publication history

Hercules debuted in Avengers #10 (Nov. 1964) as a minion of Immortus,
although his appearance was revealed in the limited series Avengers
Forever #1 - 12 (Dec. 1998 – Nov. 1999) as being an impostor. The
character's first formal appearance in the  Universe became
Journey into Mystery Annual #1 (1965), which established Hercules as
being a rival of the Thunder God Thor.

Hercules became a regular guest star in the title Thor, appearing in
issue #126 (March 1966). The character guest-starred in Tales To
Astonish #79 (May 1966), and a deadlocked battle with the Hulk
established Hercules as a powerhouse. The character teamed up with the
Avengers, as of issue #38 (March 1967), but was not yet an official
member; he was merely a guest of the Avengers during his banishment from
Olympus. In issue #45 of The Avengers, Hercules became a "Full-Fledged
Avenger" by way of Goliath's announcement to the press during the first
annual "Avengers Day". Hercules also guest starred in  Team-Up
#28 (Dec. 1974) and  Premiere #26 (Nov. 1975) before starring
along with four other heroes in the Champions which ran for 17 issues
(Oct. 1975 – Jan. 1978). After this, Hercules made a guest appearance in
 Two-In-One #44 (Oct. 1978).

Hercules starred in two limited series by writer-artist Bob Layton, with
both set in an alternate universe. A 24th century version of Hercules
starred in Hercules #1 - 4 (Sep. – Dec. 1982), which was popular
enough to spawn a sequel, Hercules vol. 2, #1 - 4 (March – June 1984).
The storylines dealt with Hercules's exile from Olympus, completion of a
series of quests and opportunity to leave his past behind and create a
new identity.

Hercules remained a constant guest star in both Thor and the
Avengers, playing a significant role in the "Avengers Under Siege"
storyline in Avengers #270 - 277 (Aug. 1986 – March 1987), involving
supervillain team the Masters of Evil. The story lead directly into the
"Assault on Olympus" storyline in Avengers #281 - 285 (July 1987 –
Nov. 1987), in which Hercules left the team.

The character starred in the self-titled limited series Hercules vol.
3, #1 - 5 (June - Sep. 2005), and guest starred in limited series Thor:
Blood Oath #1 - 6 (Nov. 2005 - Feb. 2006), a retrospective story that
depicts the second meeting between the Greek god and Thor.

At the conclusion of the "World War Hulk" storyline, Hercules received a
self-titled publication when  changed the name of the third volume
of the Incredible Hulk series to The Incredible Hercules, effective
as of issue #113 (Feb. 2008), and written by Greg Pak and Fred Van
Lente. The series concluded with Incredible Hercules #141
(April 2010), and was followed by the 2-issue mini-series Hercules:
Fall of an Avenger (March - April 2010). The mini-series is scheduled
to lead into the relaunched new title, Prince of Power #1 (May 2010),
also written by Pak and Van Lente.

One 2010 comic includes a development which suggests that Hercules had
an off-panel sexual encounter with gay male superhero Northstar at an
earlier point in time.

Writers Greg Pak and Fred Van Lente started a brand new Hercules series,
entitled Herc, featuring the hero without powers, but wielding
mythical arms.


Fictional character biography

1960s

Hercules first appears when pulled from the past by the villain Immortus
to battle the Thunder God Thor. This story is not referenced in the
character's next appearance, which depicts Hercules and Thor as
apparently meeting for the first time. The discrepancy is eventually
explained when it is revealed that the first "Hercules" encountered was
actually an alien Space Phantom in disguise.

Hercules guest-stars in an extended Thor storyline, defeating a
depowered Thunder God (punished by Odin for loving the mortal woman Jane
Foster). Hercules unwittingly becomes the slave of fellow Olympian
god Pluto when he signs a contract which he thinks is for a film, but
actually states that he will now rule the Netherworld instead of Pluto.
Hercules is eventually rescued by Thor (now at full strength) who
battles and defeats Pluto's underworld minions. Pluto opts to void the
contract rather than accept the destruction of his realm. Hercules
also has a brief encounter with the Hulk, fighting the monster to a
standstill.

Hercules reappears as the thrall of the Asgardian villainess the
Enchantress who is using water from the spring of Eros and tries to use
him to destroy the Avengers, but after being freed from the spell by
one of Hawkeye's arrows using brimstone, and being banished from Olympus
for one year by Zeus for going to Earth without permission, aids the
team for an extended period against foes such as the Mad Thinker; Namor
the Sub-Mariner; Diablo; Dragon Man; the Red Guardian; Whirlwind and the
Titan Typhon who has imprisoned the Olympians in the Land of Shades,
until leaving for Olympus. The character returns briefly during a
storyline set directly after the Kree-Skrull War in which the
returning Avengers witness an amnesiac Hercules being abducted by two
Titans. After dealing with a disruption in New York City caused by the
Olympian Ares, the Avengers travel to Olympus and free both Hercules and
the Olympian gods who have been turned to crystal by Ares using the
Ebony sword. They find out from the Black Knight's spirit he lost his
memory after being thrown from Olympus and drifting for six days and
nights.

1970s

Hercules continues to aid Thor in several connected storylines. Thor
mistakenly battles Hercules when trying to rescue an Asgardian goddess
from the underworld, but together they defeat instigators Ares and Pluto
who are trying to take over Olympus; battle the Destroyer and then
Herald of Galactus Firelord before a confrontation with Ego the
Living Planet on Galactus's behalf, as Galactus has been defeated by
Ego. Hercules is temporarily possessed by the entity the
Dweller-in-Darkness and guest stars with hero Spider-Man in title
 Team-Up. before reappearing in the title Thor, aiding
Asgardian goddess Sif locate an artifact called the Runestaff of Kamo
Tharnn. Hercules also visits California and battles old foe
Typhon.

Hercules becomes a founding member of the superhero team the Champions,
aiding the mortal heroes against the machinations of Olympians Pluto and
Hippolyta. The character appears during the Korvac saga, and after
being kidnapped by the Elder of the Universe the Collector is freed
(with the other Avengers) by comrade Hawkeye to battle the cosmic entity
Korvac who has absorbed power from Galactus's ship, giving him god-like
power, and travelled from the 31st century to remake the Universe.
Although killed in battle, Hercules and many of the Avengers are
resurrected by the entity before dying. Hercules also appears in a
humorous story with Fantastic Four member the Thing.

1980s

Hercules reappears during the "Celestial saga", joining an invasion
force comprising Olympian gods and other allies that storms the realm of
Olympia (occupied by the Eternals). After a cameo appearance with
the Avengers, Hercules reappears and aids the heroes of Earth
against an invasion of New York City by the legions of the fire demon
Surtur. Hercules rejoins the Avengers and aids the team against
threats such as Maelstrom; the Blood Brothers; the android
Vision when malfunctioning; Terminus; the space pirate
Nebula and the villains Kang the Conqueror and Immortus.

Hercules suffers a serious setback during the "Avengers Under Siege"
storyline, when Baron Helmut Zemo assembles an army of supervillains to
form the fourth version of the Masters of Evil. Courtesy of a paid pawn,
Hercules is drugged at a bar in order to incapacitate him. Hercules,
however, manages to return to Avengers Mansion and singlehandedly
engages the Masters of Evil, being eventually beaten unconscious by
Goliath, Mister Hyde, and the Wrecking Crew. Although the Masters of
Evil are defeated, Hercules remains in a coma as a result of his
injuries. The next storyline, titled, "Assault On Olympus" deals
with the consequences of Hercules's injuries, as he is taken from the
hospital by fellow Olympian Hermes and returned to Olympus. In his state
he mentions the Avengers, causing Zeus to blame them. The Avengers
eventually pursue - also aided by sometime member Namor the Sub-Mariner
who is kidnapped by Greek god Neptune - and discover they are being
blamed by Zeus for Hercules's condition, as Hercules mentioned them in
his coma. After battling several of the gods and Zeus himself, the
Avengers are forgiven when the Titan Prometheus restores Hercules to
full health using part of his life force, Doctor Druid uses his powers
to restore Hercules's sanity, and Zeus accidentally attacks Hercules,
after which he stops the fight. He hears from his son that the Avengers
are not at fault. After that Zeus decides to ban the Olympians from
Earth.

During the "Evolutionary War" storyline, Hercules defeats a misguided
High Evolutionary by mutating "beyond godhood". Hercules eventually
returns to his normal form and aids Thor against villains such as the
Mongoose and Doctor Doom. Hercules also encounters the female
mutant Magma, an active worshipper of the Greek gods, and stars in a
Hollywood film as a fictionalized version of himself.

1990s

Together with Thor, Hercules confronted the Wrecking Crew once again,
and recovers his confidence and defeats the villains when the Thunder
God feigns defeat. After a brief appearance in the "Black Galaxy"
saga, where he is trapped inside a Celestial briefly, Hercules
rejoins the Avengers as a reserve member and is upgraded to active
status during the "Collection Obsession" storyline, aiding the team
against Thane Ector and the Elder of the Universe the Collector and
then during the Operation: Galactic Storm storyline.

The other gods continue to feud with Hercules, with Ares - possessing
the body of Eric Masterson who currently wields a missing Thor's power -
launching an unsuccessful attack. When Hercules falls in love with a
mortal woman called Taylor Madison, the goddess Hera intervenes and
attempts to kill her, although this is prevented when Ares warns Zeus.
Hercules discovers that Madison was actually a construct created by Zeus
to lure out Hera, and attacks his father. Zeus is angered by "his son's
lack of respect", and strips Hercules of his immortality and half his
strength, forbidding him from ever returning to Olympus.

A despondent Hercules helps the Shi'ar warrior Deathcry return to her
homeworld, and on returning to Earth is devastated to learn that
the Avengers - and the Fantastic Four - have apparently sacrificed
themselves to stop the entity known as Onslaught, although they have
really been sent into a pocket universe. Hercules briefly joins the
commercial superhero team Heroes for Hire, and travels to Greece
with Spider-Man to meet the threat of Dr. Zeus. He eventually
reunites with his Avenger comrades, aiding the team against Morgan Le
Fey. before choosing to remain an inactive member.

After a misunderstanding Hercules is manipulated into fighting Thor,
but aids the Thunder God (together with the Asgardian entity the
Destroyer) against the Dark Gods, who have conquered Asgard.

Hercules decides to locate Erik Josten - now reformed and renamed
"Atlas" and a member of Thunderbolts - who as Goliath participated in
the beating of Hercules by the Masters of Evil. Hercules finds and
attacks Josten until former Avenger Hawkeye (now leader of the
Thunderbolts) convinces him to stop, although at the cost of their
friendship. Hercules also aids the Avengers against the avatar
group, the Exemplars.

2000s

Hercules becomes a drunkard, dismayed at the dissolution of the Avengers
during the "Disassembled" storyline, and the destruction of Asgard
and disappearance of Thor. Hera takes advantage of Hercules's
vulnerability and via her pawn Eurystheus (an ancient rival of Hercules
during the Twelve Labors) proposes he complete a modern version of the
classic Labors for a reality television show. Despite opposition from
villains such as the Abomination; the organization HYDRA, and awkward
tasks such as retrieving the shield of Captain America, Hercules is
successful. Hercules is also forgiven by former wife Megara, who
Hercules accidentally killed (together with his children) - a deception
revealed by a humbled Hera.

Hercules encounters Thor for the second time in a retrospective
story; and guest stars in a humorous story with heroine She-Hulk,
Hercules being successfully sued by the villain Constrictor for injuring
him. Hercules also aids fellow Greek god Ares against the Japanese
gods when they attempt to overrun Olympus. Hercules eventually wins
back his lost fortune in a poker match with the Constrictor.

During the Civil War storyline Hercules is depicted as an opponent of
the Superhuman Registration Act, and calls the pro-registration heroes
"traitors". Taking the alias of "Victor Tegler" - an information
technology consultant with help from Nick Fury - to hide from
pro-registration forces, Hercules is dismissed by Iron Man,
believing he cannot even spell 'registration'". Hercules helps the
Secret Avengers escape after the Thor clone is first released. Hercules,
however, kills the pro-registration's team's "secret weapon" - a clone
of Thor - in the final battle between the two sides, claiming that it is
an insult to the Odinson, before smashing its head open with a hammer
while yelling 'Thou art no Thor.' Hercules also stars in the World
War Hulk storyline, featuring a flashback to a period when the superhero
team the Champions are still together. In the flashback the team
mistakenly attack the Hulk, with the delay almost killing a gravely ill
Jennifer Walters. Hercules and former Champions teammate Angel reconcile
with the Hulk. Together with several other super beings, Hercules
forms a loose-knit group called the "Renegades" to attempt to stop the
Hulk when he invades New York City, then helping with rescue and
recovery operations in the ruins of the destroyed city then departing
before being apprehended.

After the conclusion of World War Hulk, Hercules embarks on series of
adventures with companion Amadeus Cho, a teenage genius and
"sidekick". Hercules encounters long-time foe Ares, who poisons the
hero with venom from the mythical Hydra. After being driven mad by the
venom and embarking on a destructive rampage, Hercules is eventually
stopped by former Champions team mate the Black Widow (who also
neutralizes Cho when he attacks spy organization S.H.I.E.L.D.).

Hercules plays a pivotal role in the Secret Invasion storyline,
forming a team called the God Squad (consisting of Ajak;
Amatsu-Mikaboshi; Demogorge and Snowbird) to neutralize the Skrull gods
directing the invasion of Earth. Hercules is made leader of the team, as
the representative of the Western Gods. When Nightmare asks for the
team's fears as they try to get his help to get to the Skrull gods, he
sees Hercules's fear from losing his armor bearer Hylas. Hercules and
Snowbird form a romantic attachment, and together slay Kly'bn, the
leader of the Skrull pantheon by impaling him with the dead Atum's spine
(with Amatsu-Mikaboshi assuming this role and ending the intervention by
Skrull divinity). This event is immediately followed by the
storyline "Love and War", in which Hercules and allies Cho; Namora and
the goddess Athena attempt to thwart Amazon leader Artume, who reshapes
so that the world is dominated by the Amazon females. Hera and Pluto
take advantage of the chaos and an absent Zeus to attempt to kill
Hercules and Athena. Hercules aids Cho's lover - Delphyne - slay Artume
and take her place as queen, and with Athena is able to reset
reality.

Although successful, Athena dispatches Hercules and Cho to Hades to find
Zeus as he is needed to counter Hera. The pair are waylaid in Hades
by the Dark Elf Malekith the Accursed - disguised as the Asgardian god
Balder the Brave - who requests the characters embark on a mission into
Svartalfheim, the home of the Dark Elves. Despite Pluto using the spirit
of Hercules's adoptive father, they are able to retrieve Zeus. During a
humorous series of events, Hercules is forced to disguise himself as
Thor and eventually marry Alflyse, the Queen of the Dark Elves.

During the Dark Reign storyline, Cho is alerted to the activities of
the Elder God Chthon, which cause a "chaos cascade". Cho and Hercules
form a new team of Mighty Avengers along with U.S.Agent, Vision, Hank
Pym, Stature, Quicksilver and Jocasta in order to meet the threat.
The team goes on to break into the Baxter Building, battle the Unspoken
in China, visit the Inhumans to return the Xerogen crystals, fight a
cosmic cube empowered Absorbing Man, and capture Loki for information
about the Scarlet Witch. Due to Pym's strange request to have Loki join
the team, the others lose faith in him and quit.

2010s

Hercules teams with both the Mighty and New Avengers to stop Hera from
remaking the universe with a device called Continuum. Hercules
manages to defeat Typhon while in the alternate Continuum universe.
Athena appears there after the fight, but instead of helping Hercules
she seemingly destroys the Continuum universe with him still inside. She
explains that he had to die so that Amadeus Cho could replace him as the
new "Prince of Power". A funeral service is held at the Parthenon in
Athens, where many of Hercules's comrades pay their respects and share
memories. Athena appoints Amadeus as the new leader of the Olympus
Group. Amadeus travels to Hades, only to discover that Hercules is,
in fact, not dead. Cho tells Athena he intends to use all their
resources to find Hercules and bring him back. Cho teams with Bruce
Banner to build a machine that can scan all of reality, but discovers it
would take over a billion years to locate Hercules. Amadeus then embarks
on a quest to gain the power of a god, competing against Vali Halfling
and the Pantheon and teaming up with Thor. Once Cho becomes a god and
attains omniscience, he realizes that he is inadequate to wield such
power. First he returns Hercules to Earth, then transfers all his new
powers into him.

During the events of Chaos War, Amatsu Mikaboshi arrives on Earth with
an army of slave gods, destroying the dream dimension and causing people
all over the world to enter a sleep-coma. He then destroys the
afterlives of all the cultures of the world, freeing the dead to walk
the Earth. The newly super-powered Hercules assembles a second God Squad
to battle Mikaboshi, who now calls himself the Chaos King. The combined
efforts of the God Squad, Alpha Flight, the Hulk family, and deceased
members of the Avengers and X-Men manage to keep the Chaos King's armies
at bay, while Cho and Galactus work on a way to transport the entire
Earth into the safety of the Continuum universe. Hercules is able to
seal off the Chaos King in the Continuum, saving the world. Hercules
then expends all his new powers in order to restore the universe,
leaving him reduced to a mortal man once again.

Hercules reappears in Brooklyn, armed with a new array of Olympian
weapons stolen from Ares's armory. They include a magic sword called the
Sword of Peleus, the Shield of Perseus (an unbreakable shield that turns
anyone who looks at it to stone), arrows that can penetrate through
anything, and the Helm of Hades (a helmet of invisibility). He gets a
job bar tending at a Greek run bar in Brooklyn.

During the Fear Itself storyline, Hercules comes across Basilisk,
Griffin, Man-Bull, and an unidentified fourth character robbing a bank.
They had just escaped from the Raft during the breakout caused by
Juggernaut, who was transformed into Kuurth: Breaker of Stone. Hercules
soon discovers that the amnesiac fourth person with them is actually the
witch goddess Hecate. During the fight, Hecate looks into the Shield of
Perseus and regains her memories of taking over Brooklyn. She then
teams up with Kyknos in order to take over the city. The pair manage to
turn some people against Hercules due to the chaos that the Serpent's
Worthy created. When Hercules uses the Shield of Perseus to turn some
people to stone, Basilisk and Man-Bull flee. The Griffin reacts to the
magic forces at work, devolving into a savage beast. He saves Hercules's
life and becomes his new steed, allowing him to fly around the city.
Hercules recovers upon hearing the prayers of his worshipers and finds
himself in the Griffin's care, only to discover that Brooklyn has been
reshaped into a nightmare landscape. Hercules and the Griffin manage to
find where Basilisk and Man-Bull are hiding and recruit their help.
The villains approach Hecate and Kyknos using a ruse involving Hercules
being turned to stone. Hercules quickly revives and saves the villains
by killing Kyknos, then prevents Ares's resurrection by kicking over his
alter. Hecate flees and Brooklyn is returned to normal.

During the Spider-Island storyline, the Greek owners/operators of the
bar where Hercules works have fled the dangers of New York City and
returned to Greece, leaving Hercules in charge. He befriends an elderly
African man named A. Nancy who loves stories. One night Herc is bitten
by a bed bug that gives him spider powers, which he uses to fight
crime. The Queen of Spider Island reveals herself to Herc and makes
him her slave. She sends Spider-Herc against the X-Men, who were in town
after fighting lizard people in the sewers. They try to reason with him,
but he attacks them with the Sword of Peleus. Due to the mutagenic
properties of Spider-Man's powers, Spider-Herc mutates into Herc-Spider
mid-battle. Shortly after, the X-Men are trapped in a magic web, and the
Greek goddess Arachne appears. Instead of fighting, it is revealed that
Arachne is very attracted to Herc's new form and they embrace, while the
X-Men are forced to watch. While Arachne is preoccupied, A. Nancy breaks
into his home and steals her mythical woven tapestry. He reveals himself
as the African spider god Anansi, a collector of stories. Hercules is
later cured of his spider transformation by Peter Parker, along with
everyone else infected.

Hercules is called upon to act as a guest instructor at Avengers Academy
when most of the main faculty are preoccupied with the events of
Avengers vs. X-Men. Tigra is shocked by his nakedness while
demonstrating the ancient Greek art of wrestling and forces him to wear
clothing. The school is suddenly visited by Captain America, who asks
that the facility be used to hold the younger members of the X-Men until
the fighting is over. Kavita Rao and Madison Jeffries urge their
students to comply with the Avengers, but many are resentful of the
confinement. Hercules arranges an Olympic competition between the two
schools in order to ease tensions and avoid an actual fight from taking
place. Sebastian Shaw (who was also being held at the Academy)
escapes and the faculty members of both schools try to keep him from
reaching the students. Hercules is defeated because Shaw is able to
absorb the magic energy from his weapons. Shaw then tells the X-Men
students to escape before fleeing himself. Hercules urges Tigra to let
the kids join the fight if they want to, believing they had no right to
hold them there against their will in the first place. Some of the X-Men
students remain at Avengers Academy while many join the fighting, and
Hercules reflects that while the older generation has only found war, at
least some of the kids were able to find peace.


Powers and abilities

Hercules possesses the typical powers of an Olympian god, including
superhuman strength, durability, speed, reflexes, stamina and endurance.
He is the strongest of the Olympians, being capable of feats such as
lifting and hurling a giant sequoia tree, smashing rocks to powder,
sealing an entire cliff around an opponent with his bare hands,
knocking out a yellow-crested Titan, and dragging the island of
Manhattan (though this was later retconned to be merely a boast he
had made, and not a genuine feat). His superstrong legs allow
him to run at speeds of over 100 mph, and leap over a hundred feet into
the air. He can withstand blows from Thor, and possesses a complete
resistance to high caliber bullets.

Hercules is highly skilled in archery, boxing, Greco-Roman wrestling and
Pankration, and in combat occasionally wields an golden-looking
adamantine mace - stated and shown to be the equal of Thor's own
mystical hammer Mjolnir - forged by the Greek god Hephaestus. As an
Olympian, he is resistant to all earthly diseases, possesses a healing
factor, immortality, and also has some immunity to magic. However, his
strength can be taken by significant Olympian magic, such as that of
Zeus.

Hercules sacrificed his godly powers to save humanity in the wake of the
Chaos War, and now appears to be powerless. He does, however, remain in
exceptional physical condition compared to a normal human, as well as
retaining his incredible skills in archery and hand-to-hand combat,
along with access to magical weapons and items that help in battle.


Other versions

Other  characters named Hercules

-   Varen David—In 1940, Timely Comics ('s predecessor) published
    the adventures of a strongman called "Hercules" in Mystic Comics
    #3 & 4. In 2009, this character was profiled in 's
     Mystery Handbook and identified as "Varen David".
-   Unnamed member of the Order-A member of the Order codenamed
    "Hercules" first appeared in Civil War #7 (2007).

 Zombies

A zombiefied version of Hercules appears alongside She-Hulk, Firestar,
and Starfox in  Zombies vs. The Army of Darkness when Scarlet
Witch explains to Ash Williams and Dazzler about the S.O.S. that Colonel
America put in the Avenger's comlink. Later he participates in a
multi-zombie attack on the castle of Doctor Doom. There were human
Latverians inside.

In  Zombies: Dead Days he appears in the S.H.I.E.L.D.
Helicarrier as one of the heroes who survived the zombie plague.

Later, he is seen in the ruins of New York. He is one of the many
casualties in the conflict waged against the Silver Surfer, He is
crushed to death by the zombiefied version of Hulk when he tries to get
Silver Surfer's head from his mouth.

24th Century Hercules

An alternate universe version of Hercules stars in a humorous limited
series titled Hercules, which depicts the adventures of Hercules in
the 24th century. Banished from Olympus by Zeus in order to learn
humility, Hercules travels into deep space and eventually befriends an
alien Skrull called Skyppi (initially using his shapeshifting abilities
to pose as a gorgeous human female) and the Rigellian Recorder #417.
Hercules also confronts the cosmic entity Galactus, and after being
completely humbled manages to save the world Galactus intended to
devour.

This was followed by a second series with a darker tone, as Hercules and
his allies face a cosmic version of the hero Red Wolf and a villain -
devoted to the Titan Thanos - who breaks into the tomb of Kree hero
Captain  and steals the character's NEGA-BANDS. Hercules
eventually returns to Olympus, and after a battle with Zeus (who has
apparently gone insane and killed the other Olympian gods) proves he has
learned humility by sparing Zeus's life. Zeus reveals the other gods are
not dead, but now exist on another place of existence where Zeus himself
will also reside. Hercules is advised that he is now free of his past,
and that the character can found his own dynasty.

MC2

In the alternate universe MC2 imprint title A-Next, Hercules is one of
the last of the original Avengers alive and has a son named Argo the
Almighty, who aids the next generation of Avengers.

X-Treme X-Men

X-Treme X-Men vol. 2 #7 (2013) depicts an alternate version of
Hercules who is in a same-sex relationship with that dimension's
Wolverine, the British Governor General of the Dominion of Canada, who
is known as Howlett. In issue #10 it is shown that when the pair
revealed their relationship, Zeus banished them into the pit of Tartarus
as he is the only god allowed to consort with mortals. During the
X-Termination crossover, AoA Nightcrawler's trip home resulted in the
release of three evil beings that destroy anyone they touch. Several
casualties resulted, including the AoA's Sabretooth, Horror Show, and
Fiend, as well as the X-Treme X-Men's Xavier and Hercules.

Ultimate 

In the Ultimate  universe, Hercules appears as one of Nick Fury's
Howling Commandos. Though Fury states that Hercules is an actual god,
Monica Chang doubts this claim.


In other media

Television

-   Hercules is a recurring character in the Mighty Thor segment of
    the animated television series The  Super Heroes, voiced by
    Len Birman.
-   Hercules makes a cameo appearance in the X-Men: The Animated
    Series episode, "One Man's Worth."
-   Hercules makes cameo appearances in the Fantastic Four episodes "To
    Battle the Living Planet" and "Doomsday."
-   Hercules appears in The Super Hero Squad Show episodes "Support
    Your Local Sky-Father" and "So Pretty When They Explode", voiced by
    Jess Harnell. While in the disguise of Gyros: God of Pitas,
    Loki tricks Zeus and Odin into holding a contest between Thor
    and Hercules. In "So Pretty When They Explode," Hercules and
    She-Hulk help the Super Hero Squad into rescuing Nova from Thanos.
-   Hercules appears in the Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H._ episode
    "The Tale of Hercules", voiced by Townsend Coleman.
    Besides Hercules' mythological history and being the protector of
    Greece, he is shown to have a history with Hulk, always
    mispronounces Charon's name (which annoys Charon), and causes more
    problems than he can solve while sporting a big ego. It was stated
    that the last time Hulk was invited by Hercules, they ended up
    fighting a Chimera. In the episode "Planet Monster" Pt. 2, Hercules
    is among the superheroes that help the Agents of S.M.A.S.H. and the
    Avengers fight the forces of the Supreme Intelligence.

Video games

-   Hercules appears as a non-playable character in the video game
    : Ultimate Alliance 2, voiced by Sean Donnellan. He serves
    as a boss on the Pro-Registration side. He is captured by the heroes
    at the HYDRA base in New Jersey. He and Cable are sent in a convoy
    truck but are later rescued by Captain America. Hercules is also
    shown to wield a sword in one of the cutscenes in addition to his
    normal weapons, but is quickly disarmed by Wonder Man. He is seen at
    the funeral service. Hercules helps guard Stark Tower and manages to
    escape after it is invaded by the Fold while the heroes were
    fighting the Fold in Wakanda.
-   Hercules appears in  Super Hero Squad: The Infinity
    Gauntlet, voiced by Jess Harnell. Loki and Enchantress set up a
    contest between Hercules and Thor with the prize being the Rhythm
    Infinity Gem. Thor managed to defeat Hercules in the contest.
-   Hercules is a playable character in the Facebook game :
    Avengers Alliance.
-   Hercules will appear in  Heroes, voiced by Travis
    Willingham.


Collected editions

A number of Hercules's stories have been collected into individual
volumes:

-   Essential Thor: Volume 2 (includes Journey into Mystery Annual
    #1 and Thor #126, 128-130, 584 pages, October 2008,
    ISBN 0-7851-3381-X)
-   Hercules: Prince of Power (collects Hercules: Prince of Power
    #1-4, 192 pages, harover, September 2009, ISBN 0-7851-3955-9,
    softcover, September 1997, ISBN 0-7851-0555-7)
-   Hercules: New Labors of Hercules (Collects Hercules (2005
    3rd Series) #1-5, 120 pages, softcover, October 2005
    ISBN 0-7851-1752-0)
-   Thor: Blood Oath (collects Thor: Blood Oath #1-6, harover,
    April 2006, ISBN 0-7851-2274-5, softcover, January 2007,
    ISBN 0-7851-1852-7)
-   Ares: God of War (collects Ares #1-5, 120 pages, November 2006,
    harover, ISBN 0-7851-2333-4, softcover, ISBN 0-7851-1991-4)
-   Hulk: WWH - Incredible Hercules (collects Incredible Hulk
    #106-111, 152 pages, June 2008, ISBN 0-7851-2991-X)
-   Smash of the Titans (collects Incredible Hulk #106-112,
    Incredible Hercules #113-115, and "Hulk vs. Hercules: When Titans
    Collide", 296 pages, harover, July 2009, ISBN 0-7851-3968-0)
-   Incredible Hercules:
    -   Against The World (collects Incredible Hulk #112 and
        Incredible Hercules #113-115 and "Hulk vs. Hercules: When
        Titans Collide", 136 pages, premiere harover, July 2008, ISBN
        0-7851-3312-7, softcover, October 2008, ISBN 0-7851-2533-7)
    -   Sacred Invasion (collects Incredible Hercules #116-125, 264
        pages, harover, March 2010, ISBN 0-7851-4256-8) previously
        collected in:
        -   Secret Invasion (collects Incredible Hercules #116-120,
            128 pages, premiere harover, November 2008, ISBN
            0-7851-3333-X, softcover, March 2009, ISBN 0-7851-2829-8)
        -   Love and War (collects Incredible Hercules #121-125, 128
            pages, premiere harover, March 2009, ISBN 0-7851-3334-8,
            softcover, June 2009, ISBN 0-7851-3246-5)
    -   Dark Reign (collects Incredible Hercules #126-131, 160
        pages, premiere harover, October 2009, ISBN 0-7851-3830-7,
        softcover, January 2010, ISBN 0-7851-3537-5)
    -   The Mighty Thorcules (collects Incredible Hercules #132-137,
        144 pages, harover, January 2010, ISBN 0-7851-3831-5,
        softcover, April 2010, ISBN 978-0-7851-3677-4)
    -   Assault on New Olympus (collects Incredible Hercules
        #138-141 and Assault on New Olympus Prologue, 128 pages,
        premiere harover, May 2010, ISBN 978-0-7851-4545-5)


Footnotes

