HINDSIGHT (CARLTON LAFROYGE), formerly HINDSIGHT LAD, is a fictional
character, a superhero appearing in American comic books published by
. The character has appeared primarily in the New Warriors
series. Created by Fabian Nicieza and Darick Robertson, he first
appeared in New Warriors Annual #3.


Fictional character biography

Soon after Robbie Baldwin (the superhero Speedball) moves into his
building, Carlton LaFroyge discovers his secret identity. He uses
this information to blackmail him. Baldwin refuses to cooperate.
Soon, the New Warriors are captured by a street gang called the Poison
Memories; the same gang that had viciously attacked the team's
relatives, even leading to the death of Rage's beloved grandmother.

LaFroyge creates a caped costume that included automobile side mirrors
attached to a football helmet. He summons the help of Night Thrasher to
help free the team. Through this, he weaseled his way onto the team as a
non-official member, calling himself Hindsight Lad.

Hindsight Lad became caught up in a cosmic adventure involving the New
Warriors and many of their allies. In a confrontation with the Sphinx,
most of the team were lost in time and space. Hindsight Lad figures out
much of what is going on and assists the remaining New Warriors allies
in fixing the situation.

Night Thrasher soon offers him full membership. He changes costumes
to a red/yellow suit and dropped the "Lad" part of his name. Through
him, another person gains membership, Timeslip. He remains with the team
until sometime after issue #75.

Civil War

Hindsight was seen following the disaster in Stamford, Connecticut,
wherein the Warriors, during the taping of their reality TV series,
inadvertently caused the supervillain Nitro to explode, killing most of
the team and hundreds of the town's residents. LaFroyge, now retired
from heroics, became unhinged at the news and turned against his former
teammates, setting up an inflammatory anti-New Warriors website,
DestroyAllWarriors.com. Through the site, LaFroyge not only publicly
posted the Warrior's civilian identities but incited violence against
the team's surviving members, past and present. She-Hulk helped Justice,
Rage, Ultra Girl, Slapstick, and Firestar locate LaFroyge and force him
to shut the site down. LaFroyge was subsequently placed under arrest by
She-Hulk's fiancée, John Jameson.

 TV

LaFroyge is seemingly released and creates a new website
(www.ornot.com) in order to push his conspiracy theories regarding
the superhuman community. Among his theories, he believes the superhuman
community to be controlled by a Cabal composed by Beta Ray Bill, Brother
Voodoo, Dazzler, Lockjaw, Puck, and Deadpool.


Powers and abilities

Hindsight possesses no superhuman abilities, though Turbo (Mickey
Musashi) offered to share her costume with him after her previous
partner died. This was never explored. LaFroyge did have small skill
with computer programming and research, as well as some tactical
ability, though the latter skill was best employed when assessing events
that had already occurred, analyzing in hindsight how events could have
played out if different actions were taken (thus the source of his
"heroic" identity). His research capabilities most often came into play
as an associate and later member of the Warriors, including identifying
potential additions to the Warriors' ranks when the Sphinx had dispersed
the original membership throughout time.

