HIRO TAKACHIHO is a fictional character, a superhero appearing in
American comic books published by . His first appearance
was in Sunfire & Big Hero 6 #1 and was created by Steven T. Seagle and
Duncan Rouleau.


Publication history

Created by Steven T. Seagle and Duncan Rouleau in their spare time while
working on another project, Hiro was first intended to appear with the
rest of Big Hero 6 in Alpha Flight #17 (December 1998). However, the
team first appeared in their own self-titled three-issue miniseries by
writer Scott Lobdell and artist Gus Vasquez, which due to scheduling
issues, was published before Alpha Flight #17. The character
appeared with the team in a subsequent five-issue miniseries which was
launched by  in September 2008.


Fictional character biography

Born to wealthy industrialist Tomeo Takachiho and Maemi Takachiho, Hiro
was raised in the affluent Tokyo suburb of Yoga, City of Setagaya. His
parents noticed his intellectual brilliance at an early age, and he was
placed in pre-school at age 2. He was eventually recognized as one of
the world's most brilliant child prodigies and was accepted into the
prestigious private Tesuka Advanced Science Institute. It was at the
Tesuka Institute that young Hiro's proficiency for invention and
innovation was discovered. He created his first and greatest invention
to date, the robotic synthformer known as Monster Baymax, as a project
for the Institute's science fair.

At age 13, Hiro was targeted by the Giri, a top-secret consortium of
Japanese politicians and business entities that was established to
recruit and train potential operatives for a Japanese super-team, Big
Hero 6. Silver Samurai (Kenuichio Harada), Big Hero 6's initial field
leader, first approached Hiro's mother for permission to have him join
the team, but she refused due to her desire for her child to live a
normal life. Silver Samurai then approached Hiro directly, but the boy
was less than impressed with Big Hero 6. However, after his mother was
abducted by the Everwraith, the astral embodiment of all those killed in
the 1945 nuclear attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Hiro was forced to
turn to Big Hero 6 for assistance. After joining forces with the team,
which also included his idol, the Japanese hero Sunfire, Hiro opted to
join the team and has remained a member ever since. In fact, when Silver
Samurai and Sunfire left the Big Hero 6, Hiro was appointed to serve as
the team's field leader. He continues to maintain a civilian life and
attend classes at the Tesuka Institute, although his teachers and
classmates are unaware that he moonlights as a secret agent.

Hiro idolizes Sunfire and has a crush on Honey Lemon.


Powers and abilities

Hiro is a brilliant child prodigy, proficient in many fields of science
and technology, with a focus on biology, physics, and robotics. Although
he is only an adolescent, he is a visionary theoretician and
accomplished machinesmith who has already made several breakthroughs in
fields such as robotics, computer science, synthetic polymers, geology,
biology, and communications. He is also a gifted tactician and
strategist.

Hiro has constructed several robots, his first and most advanced
creation being Monster Baymax, a water-powered synthformer whose
artificial intelligence is based on the thoughts and memories of his
departed father. Other notable inventions include: the Bio-Atomic Parcel
Detector (B-APD), a device capable of pinpointing the location of
human-sized nuclear reactors; a jet-pack-propelled flight suit that
grants its user limited firepower capabilities; a holographic virtual
reality projector that can produce a comprehensive recreation of
previous events by amassing information from various data streams; and
eyeglasses with a cybernetic video display that can connect to an
assortment of computer networks. Many of Hiro's inventions (including
Monster Baymax) are connected to his Core Cyber Network (CCN), a mobile
personal area computer network used for communication among his various
mechanical devices.


In other media

Film

Hiro, renamed HIRO HAMADA, appears in the 2014 Disney animated
feature, Big Hero 6, voiced by Ryan Potter. Hiro is a 14-year-old
robotics prodigy. Hiro's battle bots dominate the underground bot fights
of San Fransokyo. His brother Tadashi redirects him inspiring Hiro to
gain admission to San Fransokyo's Institute of Technology. Speaking of
the character, co-director Don Hall said "Hiro is transitioning from boy
to man, it's a tough time for a kid and some teenagers develop that
inevitable snarkiness and jaded attitude. Luckily Ryan is a very
likeable kid. So no matter what he did, he was able to take edge off the
character in a way that made him authentic, but appealing."
After the death of Tadashi, Hiro secludes himself from other people. He
later forms the Big Hero 6 in order to battle the villain Yokai (who was
responsible for the death of Tadashi).

Video games

Hiro appears in Disney Infinity:  Super Heroes and Disney
Infinity 3.0, based on his 2014 film appearance.

Hiro will appear in Kingdom Hearts III, set in an alternate sequel of
the 2014 movie event. According to Square Enix, as Baymax's former body
was found by an antagonist, and corrupted into a Heartless version of
itself, Hiro holds a responsibility for the loss of Baymax's former body
when he and Baymax was rescuing Professor Callaghan's daughter, Abigail
to escape the portal.

