HIROIM is a fictional, character appearing in American comic books
published by . The character is depicted usually as a
supporting character in Hulk books.


Publication history

He first appeared in Incredible Hulk vol. 2, #92 and was created by
Greg Pak and Carlo Pagulayan.


Fictional character biography

Originally, Hiroim was a Shadow Priest, dedicated to the story of the
Sakaarson — he who would unite the people of Sakaar — and trained to
join the other Shadows. However, for his blasphemy of daring to dream
that he could be the Sakaarson, he was expelled from the order. He was
then chosen to be the personal guard of the Emperor of Sakaar, and to
uphold an alliance between the Shadows and the Empire. He broke this vow
however, when the Emperor ordered Hiroim to kill his adolescent son, due
to the belief that he would bring ruin and devastation to Sakaar (a
prediction that ended up coming to pass). For breaking that oath, he
ended up in the Empire's gladiator training school, the Maw, where he
fought alongside such other warriors as Miek, No-Name the Brood, Korg
and the Hulk. After two victories in the arena — during which their
teammate Lavin Skee was badly injured —, having heard the stories of his
allies, Hiroim formed a Warbound pact with them, vowing that they would
always stand together. Having been freed from their obedience disks by
the Silver Surfer, the Warbound went on to vanquish the Red King, Hiroim
concluding that the Hulk was the true Sakaarson (although he briefly
thought that the Surfer might be the Sakaarson).

With the destruction of Sakaar following the detonation of the shuttle
that brought the Hulk to Earth, Hiroim absorbed the powers of all the
Sakaar Shadow Priests as he was the only one left, and he accompanied
the Hulk to Earth to wage war against the Illuminati. During the
subsequent conflict with Earth's heroes, Hiroim defeated Luke Cage
during the Warbound's initial attack, but was in turn defeated by Doctor
Strange when the sorcerer called on the power of his old enemy Zom.
Hiroim is missing his left arm due to Doctor Strange's attack.

Following the revelation of Miek's treachery that Miek had allowed the
destruction of Sakaar, the remaining Warbound surrender to S.H.I.E.L.D.
custody. They manage to escape during tremors caused by Manhattan Island
breaking up due to the damage the Hulk had caused. Channeling the
rock-based powers of his fellow Warbound Korg, as well as Earth hero the
Thing, Hiroim is able to 'heal' the damage before he and the others
depart, escaping into the sewers.

During the World War Hulk Aftersmash: Warbound series, Hiroim and his
fellow Warbound confront S.H.I.E.L.D. agents while attempt to protect a
badly wounded Elloe Kaifi. Unfamiliar teleportational technology take
all the Warbound and agent Kate Waynesboro to Nevada. Hiroim is not
found with the others, as he had been separated by the Leader. Basing
the two in a seemingly abandoned factory, the Leader uses Hiroim's
powers to create a gamma-dome encapsulated environment called "Gamma
World". Kate and the Warbound are trying to save him but the deadly
shields go up despite their efforts. Hiroim eventually sacrifices
himself to stop the Leader, and transfers his old power to Kate. Before
his death, he was briefly able to rebuild his form, with an intact left
arm, out of extant rock, channeling the full might of his Oldpowers.

During the Chaos War storyline, Hiroim ends up returning from the dead
after what happened to the death realms. He ends up helping the Hulks in
fighting Abomination and the forces of Zom and Amatsu-Mikaboshi. The
issue also shows that Hiroim and Korg were in a homosexual
relationship. While Hulk fights his father Brian Banner (who is in
the form of Devil Hulk), Hiroim tries to exorcise Zom from Doctor
Strange. This fails, but Zom is exorcised when Marlo Chandler taps into
Death's powers.


Power and abilities

Like all the Shadow People, Hiroim at his base, natural state possesses
physical traits slightly superior to the human maximum, and ages more
slowly after reaching adulthood at the age of 13. Beyond this he has
received quasi-mystic training as a Shadow Priest, and is an experienced
warrior, strategist, and philosopher. After the deaths of Caiera and his
people he inherited the stone-based "Oldstrong Power", drawing power
from the planet itself, enabling him to turn his body into immensely
hard and strong 'mystic rock'. Further demonstrated talents include
sensing and unravelling powerful mystic wards cast by Doctor Strange,
and limited control over the earth, as seen when helping to keep a
massive chasm from destroying Manhattan Island.


Other version

 Zombies Return

In the fourth issue Hulk, along with the Warbound, reach the moon in
hopes to start World War Hulk but instead meet Zombiefied versions of
Giant Man and the Immortals. In the battle Hiroim is eaten by one of the
Immortals.

What If

Hiroim was featured in two "What If?" issues.

-   In "What if The Hulk died and Caiera had lived?" Hiroim participates
    in the conquering of Earth with Caiera as queen.
-   The first story of a "What If" that revolved around "World War Hulk"
    had Hiroim and the rest of Warbound are killed after Iron Man didn't
    hesitate in using the laser and destroys New York. The second story
    dealing with what would happen if Thor fought Hulk in the climax had
    Hiroim with the Warbound when they fought the Warriors Three.
    Following Thor's reasoning with the Hulk and the exposure of Miek's
    treachery Hulk, Hiroim and the rest of Warbound leave and create a
    new Sakaar.


In other media

Television

-   Hiroim appears in the Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H._ episode
    "Planet Leader", voiced by Fred Tatasciore. He is among the
    Sakaar inhabitants that are controlled by Leader where he oversaw
    the slaves in the Sakaar mines. Hiroim was later freed from the
    control disks when She-Hulk overloaded Leader's control on them.

Film

-   Hiriom appears in the Planet Hulk film voiced by Liam O'Brien.

