HONEY LEMON (AIKO MIYAZAKI) is a fictional superhero appearing in
American comic books published by . The character is
commonly associated with the Japanese team known as Big Hero 6. She was
created by Steven T. Seagle and Duncan Rouleau, and first appeared in
Sunfire & Big Hero 6 #1 (September 1998).


Publication history

Created by Steven T. Seagle and Duncan Rouleau in their spare time while
working on another project, Honey Lemon was first intended to appear
with the rest of Big Hero 6 in Alpha Flight #17 (December 1998).
However, the team first appeared in their own self-titled three-issue
miniseries by writer Scott Lobdell and artist Gus Vasquez, which due to
scheduling issues, was published before Alpha Flight #17. The
character appeared with the team in a subsequent five-issue miniseries
which was launched by  in September 2008.


Fictional character biography

Aiko Miyazaki was enrolled in the graduate program at the Tokyo
University of Science when she was recruited by Naikaku Jōhō Chōsashitsu
(Naichō), Japan's premiere intelligence agency. Miyazaki's sharp
intellect and stunning looks made her a prime candidate for secret agent
status, and she was promptly placed on a research and development team
consisting of Naichō's top physicists, chemists, and mechanical
engineers and put to work creating new technology for the government.
Although Miyazaki's team was responsible for several innovations in
surveillance technology, by far their most significant invention was a
cluster of artificial, miniature wormholes—tiny warps and distortions in
the fabric of space-time. At Miyazaki's suggestion, the wormholes were
contained within an innocuous woman's purse so they could be applied in
the field without attracting undue attention. It was soon discovered
that the wormholes, in conjunction with Pym Particles and cutting-edge
nanotechnology, served as ideal storage devices in the field—virtually
any object, no matter how large, could be stored in Miyazaki's
aptly-named "Power Purse" for later use.

Soon after, the top-secret consortium of Japanese politicians and
business entities known as the Giri began recruiting candidates for Big
Hero 6, which was to become Japan's premiere superhero team. Inspired by
the exploits of Sunfire (Shiro Yoshida), Japan's national superhero,
Miyazaki persuasively lobbied her superiors in Naichō for a spot on the
team. Graduating to full-fledged "secret agent" status, Miyazaki adopted
the code-name "Honey Lemon" (inspired by her favorite television program
of the same name). As the most caring and compassionate member of the
team, Honey Lemon quickly found herself at odds with teammate Go-Go
Tomago (Leiko Tanaka), a tough-talking ex-convict who felt that Honey
Lemon received special treatment because of her looks and intellect.
However, after several heated squabbles, the two eventually learned to
appreciate one another and became good friends.

She seemingly became attracted to the team's newest potential recruit,
Hiro Takachiho, as she kept smiling at him in a flirtatious way. Later,
Honey helped overthrow a menace called Everwraith and saved Japan from
destruction.

She was only briefly seen afterwards, helping Sunfire out in Canada.
Sometime later, a mysterious individual used a machine to mind-control
the entire team of Big Hero Six and they were sent to Canada once again,
where they fought the newest incarnation of Alpha Flight until Sasquatch
discovered the plot. Honey Lemon was, along with the rest of the team,
brought back to normal, and they all returned to Japan to try to
discover who mind-controlled them.


Powers and abilities

Honey Lemon's Power Purse (also known as the "Nano-Purse") contains a
series of miniature, artificial, inter-universe wormholes, granting her
limited access to an indeterminate number of worlds and dimensions. The
unstable, fluctuating nature of the wormholes makes accurate long-term
mapping of them difficult. Before deploying in the field, Honey Lemon
typically gathers a large arsenal of supplies, shrinks them to
microscopic size using a combination of Pym Particles and cutting-edge
nanotechnology, and stores them in miniature pocket universes only
accessible via the Power Purse's wormholes. As such, she is able to
instantaneously retrieve these items from the Power Purse and restore
them to their original size while in the field.

The Power Purse's wormholes also grant access to a number of full-sized,
inhabited dimensions. For instance, the Microverse planet of Coronar
(home world of former Big Hero 6 member Sunpyre) is accessible through
the Power Purse. The total number of dimensions accessible via the Power
Purse has yet to be determined. Although Honey Lemon can use the Power
Purse's wormholes as a method of personal transportation, she only does
so in rare instances when her life is in danger, as a trip through the
Power Purse is often a very unpleasant experience for carbon-based
lifeforms.

Honey Lemon is a brilliant scientist who often keeps her opponents
off-guard by feigning ignorance. As a secret agent of the Naichō
intelligence agency, she is extensively trained in various martial arts,
including aikido, judo, jujutsu, karate, Shaolin kung fu and tae kwon
do.


In other media

Honey Lemon appears in Big Hero 6, voiced by Génesis Rodríguez.
In the film, Honey Lemon is depicted as a quirky chemistry whiz at the
San Fransokyo Institute of Technology. Co-director Chris Williams said
"She's a glass-is-half-full kind of person. But she has this
mad-scientist quality with a twinkle in her eye — there's more to Honey
than it seems." Her name is a nickname that was thought of
by Fred. This version wears a robotic suit that was built by Hiro with a
mechanical purse that can mix different chemical elements, allowing her
to create balls that she can use as explosives, traps, or safe exits.

