THE HORNET is an identity used by three fictional characters appearing
in American comic books published by . The characters
appear in the  Universe, one villain, and two heroes. Both the
first and third Hornets have suffered from physical disabilities.


Scotty McDowell

Fictional character biography

SCOTTY MCDOWELL was a wheelchair-using criminologist, who assisted
Spider-Woman on her cases. He was kidnapped by the mad scientist Karl
Malus, who injected Scotty with a formula composed of human and insect
DNA, as well as several kinds of medicine. Spider-Woman rescued Scotty,
who seemed fine.

Scotty began to suffer from nightmares in which he killed Spider-Woman.
He awoke to discover that he had great strength and insect-like wings
that allowed him to fly (but still unable to walk). He then received a
costume in the mail (sent by Malus), and when he put it on, had a
personality shift, becoming aggressive and chauvinistic. He flew around
as the Hornet, and started out as a hero, saving people, and working
with Spider-Woman. He even learned that he could throw bursts of
bio-electricity.

But Hornet became more and more resentful of Spider-Woman, and began to
endanger the innocents he was "helping", even striking an onlooker with
one of his electric blasts. When he nearly killed some thieves,
Spider-Woman was sent after him. However, Hornet's abilities were almost
a match for hers, and unlike Spider-Woman, he wasn't trying to hold back
for fear of hurting his friend. After a prolonged battle, Spider-Woman
was able to subdue the Hornet, who was nearly homicidal by this point.
She learned that Malus had altered Scotty into the Hornet, for the sole
purpose of having her die at the hands of a friend. Spider-Woman was
able to flush the formula from Scotty's bloodstream, and revert him to
normal (stripping him of both his powers and aggression).

Afterwards, Spider-Woman learned that although the formula did make him
more aggressive, the resentment he felt towards her was real. Scotty
admitted he was in love with her, but felt that she didn't notice him.
He was also jealous of the attention she garnered with her heroic deeds.
This put a strain on their friendship, and Spider-Woman ended their
"working relationship". McDowell accepted this as well, taking a job
farther away so as to preserve what was left of their friendship.

Powers and abilities

As the Hornet, Scotty was superhumanly strong and had insect-like wings
on his back that allowed him to fly at high-speeds. He could project
focused bursts of bio-electricity (his "Hornet Sting") that could stun
or kill a person.


Peter Parker

Fictional character biography

When Spider-Man was accused of murder during the Identity Crisis
storyline, he donned four different costumes to continue saving lives
without anyone knowing it was him. The Hornet costume was designed by
Mary Jane Watson-Parker and the weapon gauntlets were designed by
Spider-Man based on Ben Reilly's stinger darts. The
cybernetically-controlled wing harness was designed by Hobie Brown, the
Prowler, who never used it as it was too heavy to be worn by a person of
normal strength. Spider-Man, however, was easily able to wear it.

He used it with great success for several days, becoming a popular hero
with the media after his debut featured him thwarting the Looter's
attempt to rob the Daily Bugle. However, during a battle, the Vulture
realized that he was actually Spider-Man and exposed him. He abandoned
the Hornet persona, and soon after cleared his name.

Although the hero called Black  later gave Eddie McDonough a
duplicate Hornet costume, Spider-Man remained in possession of the
original, except for the flight harness which was returned to Hobie
Brown.

Powers and abilities

In addition to his regular abilities, the Hornet costume gave Spider-Man
the ability to fly and shoot fast-acting sedative stinger darts.


Eddie McDonough

Publication history

Although the armor first appeared in Spider-Man as one of the four new
superheroes Peter Parker had taken on, this version first appeared in
Slingers #0.

Speculation that the deceased Hornet in Wolverine #23 was not Eddie,
but instead someone else who took on the name and costume, has been
disproven by Loners writer C. B. Cebulski, and Loners #2 states
that Hornet was indeed killed by Wolverine.

Fictional character biography

Origin/Slingers

EDDIE MCDONOUGH was a science whiz who compensated for his palsied right
arm with a knack for inventing. He was given the Hornet costume by the
Black , and joined the Slingers. Eddie was able to modify the
harness, making it light enough to wear. He also added additional
weaponry, and made the costume more like a suit of armor (and even
enabled the costume to enhance his strength). As the new Hornet, Eddie
was more confident than he was normally. With the suit enhancing his
strength, nobody (but his teammate Dusk) noticed that his right arm was
normally weaker and atrophied. Hornet fought mutant rats, gangsters, and
demons with his powers. Hornet also had to fight team leader Prodigy to
save his friend Ricochet and even the villains they were fighting from
the superhumanly strong "hero". Hornet also tried to win the affections
of his teammate Dusk, but she was more attracted to the energetic
Ricochet.

Hornet learned that the Black  had made a deal with the demon
Mephisto, to return his powers and youth, and let him train new heroes
(the Slingers), and when Mephisto collected the Black 's soul, he
took the Slingers too and sent them to Hell. He offered them the chance
to leave, if they abandoned Black . While the other Slingers
wanted to leave Black  to his fate, Hornet was able to forgive the
old man, and convinced the others to help free him. Black  died in
the attempt, but Hornet's act of forgiveness enabled the Black 's
soul to ascend to a better place. In doing so, Hornet's armor and
Prodigy's powers were surrendered and lost. The team disbanded and the
depowered Hornet and Prodigy apparently retired from superheroics.

Enemy of the State

At some point Johnny and Eddie returned to fighting crime together under
their old identities. Hornet ended up going alone against HYDRA and
a mind-controlled Wolverine as they attacked the Stark International
building and was killed. Nick Fury, Elektra, and other S.H.I.E.L.D.
agents later found his corpse at the scene. Somehow, agents initially
mistook Hornet's body for Spider-Man's, Fury musing grimly on the
tragedy of the man dying a hero when nobody could even remember his
name. Elektra then beheaded the corpse in order to prevent the Hand from
resurrecting him into their army.

Powers and abilities

The Hornet costume had a jet-powered wing harness that enabled Eddie to
fly at high speeds. Micro-servos in the armored suit enhanced his
strength to superhuman levels. His gauntlets contained wrist blasters
that could fire darts filled with a fast-acting sedative, or powerful
laser-beams.


In other media

Video games

-   Hornet appears as a downloadable costume in Spider-Man: Edge of
    Time.
-   Hornet appears as an additional costume in The Amazing Spider-Man 2
    video game.

