HUSSAR is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by . She is depicted as a member of the Shi'ar
Imperial Guard.


Fictional character biography

Hussar is a warrior serving in the Royal Elite of the Shi'ar Imperial
Guard. She wields a whip that she uses to channel bioelectricity into
her opponents to shock and paralyze.

Hussar joined in the Imperial Guard's trial by combat with the X-Men to
decide the fate of the Phoenix.

She became a traitor and part of a renegade Imperial Guard faction which
served Lord Samedar, Deathbird, and the Brood in their conspiracy to
overthrow Shi'ar Princess-Majestrix Lilandra. The renegades battled the
X-Men and were defeated.

Alongside the Avengers and the Imperial Guard, Hussar battled the Kree
Starforce on Chandilar during the Kree/Shi'ar war. In the battle, Hussar
teamed with the Living Lightning to defeat Supremor. Alongside the
Imperial Guard, she then battled the Avengers on Chandilar and was this
time defeated by the Living Lightning.

She had been discharged and sent to Earth, which was turned into an
intergalactic prison in Maximum Security crossover in 2000.

Hussar has been seen among the Imperial Guardsmen, who attacked the Kree
homeworld. During the assault, Hussar and Electron fought Ronan the
Accuser, who was ultimately defeated by their teammate, Titan.


Powers and abilities

Hussar wields a metal "neuro whip" that can induce pain through a
victim's nervous system.

Hussar is an excellent hand-to-hand combatant, and a mistress of
fighting using a whip, and was trained in armed and unarmed combat by
the Shi'ar Imperial Guard.

Imperial Guardsmen wear small anti-gravity devices permitting them to
fly, designed by Shi'ar scientists and technicians.


In other media

Television

-   In the X-Men Animated Series, Hussar appears in The Phoenix Saga
    and The Dark Phoenix Saga alongside the rest of the
    Imperial Guard.

Video games

-   Hussar appears in the video game : Ultimate Alliance, voiced
    by April Stewart. She is powerful, and has a devastating
    whip attack. She fights the heroes alongside Neutron on board a
    Shi'ar warship. A simulation disk has Storm fighting Hussar at
    Arcade's Murderworld.

