HYPERION is the name of a number of fictional characters appearing in
American comic books published by . The original Hyperion
made his debut in The Avengers #69 (Oct. 1969), created by writer Roy
Thomas and artist Sal Buscema. Subsequently  has introduced
various other versions of Hyperion, each originating in a different
dimension of the  Multiverse, with seven distinct versions of the
character to date - three supervillains belonging to the team Squadron
Sinister, another villain with greater power levels than all of the
others, two heroes from alternate universes, and a zombified clone.

The first Hyperion, Zhib-Ran, was a member of Squadron Sinister,
gathered by the cosmic Grandmaster to fight against a team of Avengers
gathered by the time travelling Kang. The group later returned to fight
the Defenders with the alien Nebulon granting them additional super
powers. The original Hyperion later learns that he's a duplicate version
of Hyperion of Earth-712 created by the Grandmaster. For a while he
replaced the Earth-712 version, but ultimately dies fighting against the
Earth-712 Hyperion. A different Hyperion later appears with the latest
Squadron Sinister but is defeated by the Thunderbolts.

Six years after the creation of the Squadron Sinister.  created a
heroic version of the team, the Squadron Supreme from the alternate
dimension designated Earth-712. In this version Hyperion (Mark Milton)
is a founding member of the Squadron Supreme, with the purpose of
protecting the citizens of the United States. The Squadron Supreme came
to the main  earth (Earth-616) to fight the Squadron Sinister
revealing their existence to members of the Avengers. The Squadron later
takes control of the United States, believing they could keep everyone
safer by taking control of the nation. The desire for peace and control
leads several members of the Squadron to brainwash several super
villains and others who oppose their rule that becomes more and more
totalitarian in nature. After a battle that costs Nighthawk his life,
Hyperion realizes the errors of their approach and relinquishes control
of the country. When the Earth-712 universe is destroyed by the Nth Man
the Squadron Supreme ends up stranded in the Earth-616 universe.

In 2003  launched Supreme Power, a new take on the
Squadron Supreme universe, designated Earth-31916, where Hyperion is an
alien baby sent to earth from a dying planet. The origin mirrors that of
Superman, but Hyperion is found and raised by the United States
Government to be a super powered operative. He later turns on the
government and helps establish Earth-31916's first super hero team. This
version of Hyperion was killed during 's 2015 Secret Wars
storyline.

Other versions of Hyperion have been seen over the years, including King
Hyperion from an alternate dimension, a Zombie version that shows up on
Earth-616, an alternate reality Hyperion that joined the Avengers and
Baron Hyperion that led a portion of Battleworld during Secret Wars,
fighting against several other versions of the Squadron Supreme/Squadron
Sinister.


Publication history

Squadron Sinister (Earth-616)

The first Hyperion in  debuted in the title the
Avengers. This story arc introduced the supervillain team the
Squadron Sinister, whose members were loosely based on heroes in 
Comics' Justice League of America, with Hyperion based on Superman.

The Squadron Sinister are assembled by the cosmic entity the Grandmaster
to battle the champions of the time-traveling Kang - the superhero team
the Avengers. The Avengers defeat the Squadron and thwart the
Grandmaster, with the Thunder God Thor miniaturizing Hyperion and
trapping him in a glass sphere. The Squadron reappear in the title
Defenders, reunited by the alien Nebulon. The villains receive greater
power in exchange for the planet Earth, and create a giant laser cannon
in the Arctic to melt the polar ice caps, thereby covering the entirety
of the Earth's surface in water. The superhero team the Defenders
prevent the scheme and defeat the villains (and Nebulon), with the Hulk
overpowering Hyperion.

After this defeat Hyperion and his two remaining team mates are
teleported off world by Nebulon, and later return to Earth. Acquiring an
energy-draining weapon, the villains plan to threaten the Earth once
again but are defeated by the Defenders and the Avenger Yellowjacket.

Hyperion has another brief encounter with several members of the
Avengers, who seek a way to separate the Power Prism of Doctor Spectrum
from fellow Avenger the Wasp. The character battles Thor once again
and encounters the Earth-712 version of Hyperion from the Squadron
Supreme. Hyperion is also involved with the warrior woman Thundra,
with the relationship ending when she discovers a means of returning to
her own dimension. In the Earth-712 universe Hyperion is told by the
villain Master Menace that he is an inorganic duplicate created by the
Grandmaster modeled on the Hyperion from that universe. A bitter
Hyperion then impersonates the Squadron Supreme's version of Hyperion
for several weeks before dying in battle against the original. The
Grandmaster briefly resurrects the character as part of the Legion of
the Unliving, a group created to combat the Avengers.

A new Hyperion is made when the Grandmaster later reappears and reforms
the Squadron Sinister. Hyperion is joined by a new Doctor Spectrum
(ALICE NUGENT, former lab assistant of Henry Pym); the Whizzer (now
called Speed Demon) and Nighthawk. This Hyperion originated from the
Microverse, like the original Sinister Hyperion claimed before learning
his origins were a lie. Courtesy of a phenomenon known as the WELLSPRING
OF POWER - an interdimensional source of superhuman abilities - the
Grandmaster increases the Squadron Sinister's powers and they battle the
New Thunderbolts. Thunderbolts team leader Baron Zemo defeats the
Grandmaster, and in the ensuing chaos Hyperion and the members of the
Squadron Sinister scatter and escape.

Squadron Supreme (Earth-712)

Thomas and penciller John Buscema also created an alternate universe
team of heroes called the Squadron Supreme in the title Avengers,
using characters that shared names with those of the Squadron Sinister
(this caused confusion in 's production department, as the covers
of Avengers #85 and #141 (Nov. 1975) claimed the issues featured
appearances by the Squadron Sinister, when in fact it was the Squadron
Supreme that appeared in both issues). The last known Eternal left on
Earth-712, the character is a founding member of the Squadron
Supreme and has a civilian identity, Mark Milton.

The Earth-712 Hyperion appears on every occasion with the Squadron
Supreme, and the group first encounter beings from the Earth-616
universe when four Avengers - the Vision; Scarlet Witch; Quicksilver and
the second Goliath - accidentally arrive. The Avengers first battle and
then assist the Squadron Supreme against the global threat posed by the
mutant Brain-Child, before returning to their own universe.

Hyperion and the Squadron Supreme fall under control of the artifact the
Serpent Crown and battle the Avengers in the Earth-616 universe before
being freed; encounter Thor when he battles the evil Hyperion 
and enlists the aid of the Defenders against the villain the Overmind
and his ally Null, the Living Darkness when they threaten the Earth-712
universe.

In the 12-issue Squadron Supreme miniseries (Sept. 1985 - Aug. 1986)
Mark Gruenwald picked up from where Earth-712 was last seen in
Defenders #114 and revealed Hyperion's origin. In the miniseries,
Hyperion and other Squadron members resolve - against the advice of
Nighthawk - to assume control of the government of the United States on
Earth-712. Hyperion helps establish the behavior modification
program; defeats and brainwashes the Institute of Evil; and is
trapped in an inter-dimensional zone by the evil (Zhib-Ran) Hyperion.
Forced to ally himself with Master Menace to escape, Hyperion battles
Zhib-Ran to death and while victorious is blinded. After a battle to
the death with Nighthawk and the Redeemers, a team formed to stop the
domineering Squadron, Hyperion relents and relinquishes power.

The character and the surviving members of the Squadron Supreme travel
into space to protect their planet from the expanding Nth Man, and are
exiled to the Earth-616 universe. The team encounters the hero
Quasar, and take up residence at the government facility Project
Pegasus. Quasar and the Eternal Makkari rescue the Squadron when the
team becomes captured by the cosmic entity the Stranger. It is at this
time that Makkari identifies Hyperion as an Eternal and teaches him how
to restore his eyesight. Aided by team mates the Whizzer and Doctor
Spectrum, the character battles the entity Deathurge, with the
entire Squadron then assisting the Avengers against the villain Imus
Champion before finding the means to return to their universe. The
team then disband but are reunited by Hyperion once learning a corrupt
government has filled the power vacuum left by the Squadron. With
the aid of inter-dimensional adventurers the Exiles, Hyperion and the
Squadron expose the government to a global audience.

Supreme Power (Earth-31916)

The mature-audience  MAX imprint showcases the adventures of the
Earth-31916 version of the Squadron Supreme. This Mark Milton was sent
to Earth in a spacecraft, and seized shortly after by U.S. government
agents who raised him in a tightly controlled, isolated environment and
exposed him to frequent propaganda. As an adult, he became a covert
agent used in strict secrecy, but eventually a reporter came too close
to the truth, and the decision was made to go public, largely so he
could be used as a distraction from the government's even more closely
guarded secret super-operative, Joe Ledger He briefly teams with
Nighthawk and Blur to find and defeat the super-powered serial killer
Michael Redstone. As Hyperion discovers that he has been
systematically lied to, he becomes disillusioned with his government
and finally openly rebels. When the government attempts to blackmail
him into returning by revealing his alien status to the public, he
responds by smashing into the North Pole from space, creating a 10.5
seismic event.

In the Supreme Power: Hyperion miniseries, a hastily assembled team of
superhumans is sent by the government to retrieve him, and the resulting
battle—through an interaction of Hyperion's "flash vision" eye-beams,
Nuke's radiation blast, and Arcanna's reality manipulation—sends the
combatants into a (seeming) alternate timeline where Hyperion and
the Squadron Supreme (consisting of several retrieval team members plus
several previously unseen superhumans) rule a dystopian world, causing
Hyperion on the advice of his otherworld counterpart to rethink his
ideas about power, humanity, and teamwork, leading him to surrender to
the Squadron from his world. It is only afterwards that Emil Burbank
deduces that it was not an alternate world they traveled to, but their
own future; Burbank tells no one of his discovery.

During the events of Secret Wars, Hyperion is killed on Battleworld by
his own counterpart, Baron Hyperion from the Squadron Sinister.

King Hyperion (Earth-4023)

Another Hyperion, King Hyperion from the Exiles series (see below),
was a part of the reality hopping team known as Weapon X. This version
of Hyperion is far more powerful than his other incarnations. He seeks
to conquer alternate Earths with the aid of alternate versions of
Spider-Man and Ms.  and in the process kills alternate versions of
Magneto, The Hulk, Wolverine, Thor, Namora, and others. He was
eventually defeated by Blink and an alternate version of Gambit who used
creative tactics to beat him. But Hyperion survived even though his body
was blown to pieces and he was able to regenerate and regain his full
power. After which he seeks revenge on the Exiles only to be engaged in
battle by two alternate versions of himself, including the Earth-712
version. After which, King Hyperion is exiled to his home reality where
Earth was completely destroyed by nuclear weapons in an attempt to
destroy King Hyperion years before. He somehow escapes from Earth 4023
and is later seen in Russia in the regular  Universe battling the
Winter Guard and the Blue , the latter of which manages to defeat
him. After imprisonment in the Raft he was nominated for the
Thunderbolts program by Luke Cage. King Hyperion tells the team he
is the heroic version, and that the Hyperion who fought Blue  had
switched their places upon defeat. This turns out to be a lie, and he
turns on the Thunderbolts during their first mission together. After
briefly battling Juggernaut, he is brought down by Ghost, who uses the
nanites in King Hyperion's spine to dose him with Argonite. Moonstone,
Juggernaut and Man Thing savagely beat the weakened King Hyperion.

Zombie Hyperion (Earth-616)

Another Hyperion appeared on Earth-616 as a member of the Zombie
Squadron Supreme. Like his teammates, this Hyperion is a zombified clone
of the hero of Earth-712 and is created by scientists who are attempting
to give Earth its own Squadron Supreme. They graft the DNA of the
Earth-712 team (allegedly obtained the last time the team crossed into
Earth-616) to corpses of normal humans and zap them with space radiation
known as the Z-wave. This animates the super-powered team to life, but
with the unforeseen consequence that they are flesh-craving zombies.
Believing themselves to be the original Squadron Supreme and with no
memory of how they got into the underground lab facility, the team goes
on a rampage before being quarantined, apparently carrying the same
virus present in the majority of  Zombies books. Hyperion is the
only one to escape while his teammates stay behind to try to escape
their own way. He goes on an eating frenzy in the surrounding Kansas
countryside before dying of Mad Cow disease which he contracted while
eating a group of cattle.

Hyperion (Earth-13034)

Another Hyperion joins the Avengers in Jonathan Hickman's The Avengers
vol. 5, #1 (December 2012). Hickman described the decision to use a new
Hyperion, rather than an existing one:

  "This is yet another parallel universe Hyperion. This is not King
  Hyperion, or Supreme Power Hyperion, this is not Gruenwald's Hyperion.
  This is Hyperion without all that baggage. This is Hyperion with a
  fresh slate, for a very specific purpose. He comes out of what the big
  story is behind the whole Avengers three-year plan that I have. He's
  very important, very pivotal, and I think people are really going to
  dig where we go with that. He's not going to be our poor analogue for
  Superman."

His origin is that he came to Earth as a baby sent as the only survivor
of a race of Eternals from a dying world. He was raised by a man named
"Father", who named him Marcus Milton and taught him the morals of
society. As an adult, he became the superhero named Hyperion and
protected the world alongside the Squadron Supreme. When his reality
collided with another reality, Hyperion was the only survivor, floating
around in the void that used to be his reality until a group of A.I.M.
scientists pulled him into the Earth-616 reality. Hyperion was in the
captivity of A.I.M. until he was freed by the Avengers and offered a
place amongst them. Hyperion is among the superheroes that joined
the Avengers due to the threat of Ex Nihilo on Mars. Hyperion was
with the Avengers when A.I.M. was sighted in the Savage Land trying to
extract the formula from one of the Garden's evolution pods.
Hyperion later joins the Earth-616 version of the Squadron Supreme along
with other various heroes who survived their home realities'
destruction. This new incarnation of the Squadron Supreme are more
dangerous than the Earth-712 and Supreme Power versions as they swear to
protect Earth by any means necessary. Their first public battle is the
destruction of Atlantis which Hyperion enacts himself as well as
severing Namor's head with his atomic vision, killing him instantly in
retaliation for the King of Atlantis' role in the annilation of Doctor
Spectrum's home reality. After the public death of Namor the Squadron
Supreme become a very controversial team which puts them at odds with
the Avengers. Hyperion is convinced to take on a secret identity and
later decides to take a job as truck driver.

Baron Hyperion (Secret Wars 2015)

Another version of Hyperion appears on Battleworld during Secret Wars in
the four issue mini-series "Squadron Sinister". This Hyperion comes from
an unknown Earth and resembles his 1960's incarnation except that he
wears long pants. Baron Hyperion's version of the Squadron Sinister
consists of a Silver Age-styled Whizzer and Nighthawk but with
modern-styled versions of Doctor Spectrum, who is Japanese and Warrior
Woman, who appears to be a light-skinned African-American. Baron
Hyperion appears to be more powerful than most of his other alternate
incarnations and rules the province of Utopolis and frequently conquers
and annexes other provinces. The Squadron Sinister easily defeats and
kills their counterparts from the Supreme Power reality (Baron Hyperion
effortlessly incinerates the Supreme Power Hyperion) save for the
Supreme Power version of Nighthawk who is forced to act as the
Sinister's regent. Baron Hyperion is arrogant and bloodthristy and
prefers to kill his opponents with his atomic vision. Nighthawk gets fed
up with Hyperion's pride and secretly plots to kill him. Warrior Woman,
who is in a sexual relationship with Hyperion also plans to overthrow
him. Nighthawk creates a plan for the Squadron to steal an Argonite gun
from the Shadow Province, which succeeds. Days later the Squadron
fight and defeat The Fearsome Four after they tried to conquer the
province of Europix, which Hyperion warned them against earlier. During
the battle with The Fearsome Four in Europix the Argonite gun is stolen
from the Squadron's headquarters. Nighthawk and Whizzer later
recover the Argonite gun from Sandman who is revealed to have stolen it.
Later Nighthawk frames Whizzer for the theft of the Argonite gun and
Hyperion incinerates him. Sometime after, Nighthawk manipulates Doctor
Spectrum into fleeing after a Thor Corp member is found dead and
Spectrum is the prime suspect. Warrior Woman secretly leads the heroes
of Nutopia to invade Utopolis, all the while pretending to be sided with
the Squadron. Hyperion is first caught off guard by the Nutopians but he
eventually kills their heavy-hitters with ease, forcing them to
retreat. Afterwards, Warrior Woman disappears which angers Hyperion
to the point of destroying buildings and killing civilians. Nighthawk
appears and shoots Hyperion in the back with the Argonite gun. Nighthawk
reveals that he has obtained Doctor Spectrum's Power Prism and he
engages in an equally matched battle with Hyperion. But Hyperion soon
starts to weaken due to Argonite exsposure and Nighthawk gets the
upperhand. Eventually Hyperion weakens enough that Nighthawk disregards
the Power Prism and strangles Hyperion to death with his bare hands,
breaking his neck in the process.


Powers and abilities

All versions of Hyperion possess superhuman strength, stamina, speed,
durability, flight, and in a few cases powerful breath. Each also has
greatly enhanced sensory perceptions, which extends to being able to
perceive the entire electromagnetic spectrum (X-ray vision) and "atomic
vision" - the equivalent of heat vision. The heroic Earth-712 version of
Hyperion also possesses the ability to use cosmic energy to augment his
life force granting him great longevity and regenerative abilities,
courtesy of his Eternal heritage. King Hyperion has vast healing
abilities and can regenerate even when his body is blown apart, given a
sufficient amount of time. Most of the versions of Hyperion's powers and
vitality are diminished when exposed to argonite radiation. The
Earth-712 Hyperion also has a college degree in journalism..


Other versions

In the Earth-9997 universe seen in the miniseries Paradise X, a
version of Hyperion is recruited by the robot X-51 for his squadron of
interdimensional heralds. He stems from a world in which almost all
superheroes perished in a nuclear attack by the governments of Earth,
leaving him as the only survivor. This Hyperion kills the master villain
Kulan Gath who is responsible for the deaths of many of Earth's heroes
on yet another alternate world.

The alternate universe title Exiles features a version of Hyperion
referred to as "King Hyperion", who is a member of a team known as
Weapon X. Although initially aiding the team to travel between
dimensions to repair the time/space continuum, the character is revealed
to be psychopathic and commits mass genocide on several worlds before
finally being stopped and banished to his original dimension.
However, King Hyperion somehow escaped this dimension and found his way
to Earth 616, where he battled and was defeated by the Blue .


In other media

Television

-   Hyperion (alongside the Squadron Supreme) appears in The Super Hero
    Squad Show episode "Whom Continuity Would Destroy!", voiced by
    Travis Willingham. He alongside Nighthawk and Power Princess are
    pulled from their reality by the Grandmaster in order to fight Iron
    Man, Hulk, and Scarlet Witch. Hyperion ended up fighting Hulk in
    Egypt and lost because he allegedly "held back."
-   Hyperion appears in the Avengers Assemble, voiced by Brian
    Bloom. In the series storyline, Hyperion is an alien from another
    planet who attempted to end corruption with his team. However, their
    ways of ending corruption involved enslaving their own people in an
    effort to create order. When the people of the planet refused to
    blindly obey them, they used the Power Prism to destroy the planet,
    leaving Hyperion to search for another planet to inhabit.

    Hyperion first appears in the season one episode "Hyperion" when the
    Avengers attempt to stop a cluster of planet-sized meteorites from
    striking the East Coast. First saving Manhattan from a meteor
    classified by J.A.R.V.I.S. as an "Earth-Killer" and when crashing
    the Avengers' battle with Wrecker, Hyperion introduces himself to
    the Avengers when they encounter him in his citadel above the city.
    Though Hyperion orders his computer Quagmire to show his origin
    story, he leaves out the part where he enslaved his people, and
    claimed that his home world's destruction was the population's
    own fault. When he tried to kill Wrecker on the Golden Gate Bridge
    as he was trying to escape, the Avengers stood in his way, believing
    that killing the bad guys was against the law. In a fit of rage,
    Hyperion fought the Avengers. While the other Avengers fought him,
    Iron Man used J.A.R.V.I.S. to hack the citadel's computer and found
    out about what Hyperion left out when he told the Avengers his
    origin, confirming that Hyperion was insane. Though defeated by the
    Avengers and placed in a special cell stating, Hyperion is later
    freed by Red Skull while offered a membership in the Cabal at the
    end of "Bring on the Bad Guys."

    In the episodes "The Ambassador" and "By the Numbers", Hyperion
    serves as a member of the Cabal and aids the Red Skull while having
    the chance to take revenge on the Avengers. But in the events of
    episodes "Exodus" and "The Final Showdown", saved by Iron Man when
    he almost is killed by Red Skull's trap, Hyperion and the other
    Cabal members aid the Avengers in defeating Red Skull.

    In the second season episode "Nighthawk", it was revealed that
    Hyperion's team did not perish when Nighthawk appeared on Earth.
    Nighthawk has mentioned about knowing of Hyperion's time with the
    Cabal and considered him the "hammer" of the group. At the end of
    the episode, Hyperion appears on the S.H.I.E.L.D. Tri-Carrier and
    frees Nighthawk with the intent to reform their group.

    In the episode "The Dark Avengers", thanks to the power of the
    Reality Stone, the Squadron Supreme have become Earth's guardians,
    with Hyperion as leader and the Avengers are wanted felons. Hyperion
    attempts to use his super-breath to incapacitate the heroes. He
    realizes that reality is being rewritten again after a power anomaly
    causes Captain America's shield to revert to its true form, and
    throws the shield at Captain America in an attempt to kill him. Iron
    Man saves Cap from falling to his death, and one of Hawkeye's
    exploding arrows to the face soon takes out Hyperion.

    In the episode "Avengers' Last Stand", Hyperion joins the Squadron
    Supreme into enacting Nighthawk's plot against the Avengers. In the
    episode "Avengers Underground," Hyperion annihilates the Atlantean
    soldiers that have been sent by Attuma while throwing one of them
    back into the ocean to tell Attuma what he just saw. Ant-Man later
    transfers the Power Prism's powers to Captain America where he turns
    the sun blue so that Black Widow can defeat Hyperion. Nighthawk then
    teleports Nuke and Hyperion to the tower where Hyperion absorbs
    Nuke's powers with the intent on destroying Earth. As Nighthawk
    prepares to leave Earth, Iron Man defeats him and the rest of the
    team stops Hyperion from reaching the planet's core. With the
    Squadron Supreme defeated, Hyperion and the rest of his teammates
    are mentioned to have been remanded to a special section of
    the Vault.

Video games

Hyperion is an unlockable character in the Facebook game :
Avengers Alliance.

Toys

Hyperion received his own action figure in the successor to the 
Universe toyline:  Infinite Series in 2014 where his figure is
modeled after his classic Squadron Supreme incarnation from Earth-712.

In January 2016, LEGO released the "Avenjet Space Mission" (76049) set.
It includes a Hyperion mini figure, as well as Captain America (Space
Suit), Captain , Iron Man (Space Suit) and Thanos.

