ICEMAN (BOBBY DRAKE) is a fictional superhero appearing in American
comic books published by  and is a founding member of the
X-Men. Created by writer Stan Lee and artist Jack Kirby, the character
first appeared in The X-Men #1 (September 1963).

Iceman is a member of a subspecies of humans known as mutants, who are
born with superhuman abilities. He has the ability to manipulate ice and
cold by freezing water vapor around him. This allows him to freeze
objects, as well as turn his body into ice.

The character has been frequently present in X-Men and
Spider-Man-related comics, video games, animated series, and movies.
Shawn Ashmore portrays Iceman in the X-Men films, and voices the
character in The Super Hero Squad Show.


Publication history

Created by writer Stan Lee and artist/co-writer Jack Kirby, the
character first appeared in X-Men #1 (September 1963). Lee later
admitted that Iceman was created essentially as a copy of the Human
Torch, only using the opposite element for his power.

Iceman was featured in two self-titled limited comic book miniseries,
one in 1984-85 written by J. M. DeMatteis and another in the 2000s by
Andy Lanning and Dan Abnett, with art by Karl Kerschl. DeMatteis said of
the first series, "It was my idea, so there was no one to blame but
myself. I'll just say that it was a mistake and if the series made any
sense whatsoever it was due to [editor] Bob Budiansky. That was a case
where the editor's input was really needed - and Bob was a big help."

A mainstay in most X-Men titles, Iceman has been a main character in
both Uncanny X-Men and the second volume of X-Men and was also
featured in the Champions and New Defenders as a member. He was a
main character in the first volume of X-Factor, and a star in
flashback stories when he was a teenager in X-Men: The Hidden Years
and X-Men: First Class.

In April 2015, in issue 40 of All-New X-Men, a time-displaced version
of the teenaged Iceman was revealed as gay by his teammate, the psychic
Jean Grey, who discerned this because of her telepathic ability to hear
his thoughts. This raised questions, because the character's adult,
present-day counterpart had always lived as a heterosexual. In Uncanny
X-Men #600, which was published in November that year, the young Iceman
confronts his older self, who confirms that he is gay as well.

Collected editions

  Title                   Material collected                      Year   ISBN
  ----------------------- --------------------------------------- ------ ----------------
  X-Men: Iceman           Iceman 1-4, Bizarre Adventures 27   2012   978-0785162759
  Iceman (X-Men: Icons)   Iceman (X-Men: Icons)_ 1-4             2002   978-0785108894


Fictional character biography

Early life

ROBERT LOUIS "BOBBY" DRAKE was born in Port Washington, Long Island, New
York, to William Robert Drake and Madeline Beatrice Bass-Drake. His
father is Irish Catholic, and his mother is Jewish. Bobby's powers
first manifested when he was on a date with Judy Harmon, and a local
bully by the name of Rocky Beasely tried to take Judy away for himself.
Knowing Judy could not put up a good fight, Bobby pointed his hand at
Beasely and encased him in a block of ice. Later, the local townspeople,
having heard of the incident, came looking for him in the form of an
angry mob. The local sheriff had no choice but to put Bobby in jail for
his own "protection". While Bobby sat in his cell at the sheriff
station, the outer wall was blown open, and a young man named Scott
Summers walked in and offered to take Bobby with him. After Bobby turned
him down, the two mutants got into a short battle, which was soon ended
by the arrival of Professor Charles Xavier.

After Xavier spoke with Bobby and his parents, Bobby's parents suggested
that he go with Professor Xavier to his "school for gifted youngsters".
Bobby took the suggestion and left with Professor Xavier and Cyclops to
become the second member of the X-Men. He is later joined by Henry
"Hank" McCoy, Jean Grey, and Warren Worthington III as the founding
members of the X-Men. Iceman quickly befriends Hank McCoy (Beast), and
the two serve as comic relief for the team. Drake remains self-conscious
regarding the fact that he is the youngest member of the group.
Appearing in his original snow covered form, he first battles Magneto
along with the rest of the team, and later the Brotherhood of Evil
Mutants. Bobby Drake's first girlfriend is Zelda. Not long after,
he takes on a new ice-covered form. He then teams up with the Human
Torch for the first time. The two would become close friends as time
went on. With the X-Men, he visits the Savage Land and meets Ka-Zar for
the first time. He then battles the Juggernaut, and is badly
injured in his first battle against the Sentinels. He next battles
Magneto by himself. Later, he visits Subterranea for the first
time. Then, he and Beast battle the Maha Yogi. During his
original stint with the X-Men, Drake pursues a relationship with Lorna
Dane, although the relationship does not last. Iceman is among the
original X-Men captured by Krakoa, leading to a new incarnation of X-Men
of which he is not a member. With most of the original team, he quits
the X-Men.

Champions and Defenders

Iceman moves to the American west coast to attend UCLA and becomes a
founding member of The Champions of Los Angeles. However, the
Champions soon dissolve.

Iceman is then abducted by Master Mold, and alongside Angel, he
encounters the Hulk. Iceman next aids the Thing in battling the
Circus of Crime. Drake retires from life as a superhero to earn a
college degree in accounting - but apparently at a college on the east
coast, not UCLA.> While in college, he briefly rejoins the X-Men to
rescue the captives of Arcade's henchman, Miss Locke.

Iceman is reunited with Beast, encounters Cloud, and then returns as a
full-time superhero in an incarnation of the Defenders alongside his
former teammates, Angel and Beast. He also battles Professor Power's
Secret Empire while with the Defenders. After the Defenders disband,
Drake embarks on his career as an accountant.

Some time later, Iceman encounters Mirage, the "daughter" of Oblivion.
Iceman journeys back in time and meets his parents before he was born,
and battles Oblivion and Mirage. He then reconciles with his
parents.

X-Factor

The original X-Men, including Iceman, reunite to form the superhero team
X-Factor. With this new team, he encounters Apocalypse for the first
time.

During his time with the team, Loki captures Bobby, hoping to use him to
gain control over the Frost Giants. Loki enhances Bobby's powers and
then extracts them to restore the size of the Frost Giants. Iceman is
rescued by Thor. Loki's tampering increases Bobby's powers to such
an extent that he begins to lose control of his abilities. During a
later battle with the Right, he is fitted with a power-dampening belt
which actually helps him control his abilities. Once able only to
sheathe his own body in a protective coating of ice, Bobby finds he can
encase the entirety of the Empire State Building. With time, Bobby gains
sufficient control over his augmented powers and is able to stop using
the inhibitor belt. Believing he has achieved his full potential, Bobby
does not attempt to develop his abilities further.

With X-Factor, Bobby then defeats Apocalypse's Horsemen. Iceman
helps watch over many of the younger superheroes, something he once was.
Most notably, he and Beast help Boom Boom gain a more normal life. For a
brief while, he also helps supervise the New Mutants and their sister
team, the X-Terminators. They, in turn, save him from the deadly kiss of
Infectia.

Bobby also develops a romantic relationship with Opal Tanaka. After a
session of ice sledding, she discovers threatening mail in her mailbox,
a precursor to harassment by her cybernetically-enhanced relatives of
the Tatsu Clan of the Yakuza, which Bobby helps her out with.

After the "Muir Island Saga", Iceman rejoins the X-Men along with the
rest of X-Factor.

Back with the X-Men

When he rejoined the X-Men it seemed that he learned to control his
powers and no longer needed the inhibitor belt, this made him believe he
reached the limit of his powers. The X-Men were separated into two
groups, Iceman was placed in the gold team, led by Storm, along with
fellow original X-Men Jean Grey (now sans codename) and Archangel.

One day he took Opal to eat with his parents, however his dad began
humiliating her because of her Japanese heritage. The four are attacked
by the Cyber-Samurai, which added to William Drake's prejudices about
the girl. When Bobby came across Mikhail Rasputin he used his mutant
abilities on him. Bobby discovered that his potential was still far from
being reached as he converted his body into ice, not just covered by
it. By turning his entire body to ice, instead of just wearing an
icy exterior, Bobby now was capable of using his power in new,
aggressive ways, adding spikes and padding to his ice structure.

Too busy with the many threats that the X-Men faced every day, Bobby let
his relationship with Opal deteriorate and, when they finally saw each
other again after weeks, it was only to save her from an attack by
mutant haters. Annoyed that she could only gain his attention by nearly
getting killed, Opal broke off their relationship.

Later, as he was checking on Emma Frost who was in a comatose state
after the mutant Trevor Fitzroy unleashed the mutant-hunting Sentinels
on Emma Frost and her students known as the Hellions, the mansion was
hit by an electricity breakdown. Emma woke up disoriented, possessed
Bobby's mind, and used his powers in ways Bobby never had; she froze an
entire river and traveled through water. She was looking for her pupils
but after finding out they were dead, she left Bobby's body.

Bobby invites Rogue to tag along on a visit to his parents. Wrongly
assuming a romantic relation, his father disapproves of Rogue, verbally
attacking them with the same prejudices he expressed with Opal. This
time, Bobby had enough and left after telling his father that he should
just accept the fact that he is a mutant and he would never fit the
definition he has of normal. He was upset that Emma exhibited greater
control of his powers than he had. Since Rogue was having problems with
Gambit, the two of them go on a road trip to ease their minds.

During the Legion Quest, Iceman was one of the X-Men who went back in
time to stop Legion from killing Magneto. They succeed, but only
partially. Legion does not kill Magneto, but instead accidentally
murdered Xavier, his own father, years before Legion had been conceived
much less born. This paradox caused the events of the Age of Apocalypse.
At the last moment before the original reality ended, Iceman's fellow
X-Men, Rogue and Gambit shared a kiss. When reality resumed, Rogue's
mind-absorbing touch renders Gambit comatose. Having absorbed some
secret haunting memories, she needs to get away from the X-Men and
Iceman volunteers to join her on a road trip, though at the same time he
was starting to see visions of Emma Frost. When Gambit awoke from his
coma, he tracked them down and confronted Rogue about what she saw in
his mind. She broke off their relationship officially and left for good.
Iceman and Gambit returned to the X-Men.

When the entity known as Onslaught first appeared, Iceman was chosen as
one of his test subjects, along with Storm, Cyclops and Wolverine. They
were pitted against a servant of Onslaught named Post, in a specific
battle area of harsh environment to test the extent of their abilities.
They won and were returned to the mansion. However, Iceman's chest had
been shattered in his ice form during battle, making it impossible to
change back to human form. He confronted Emma Frost and demanded to
know what she did to his powers in his body and how to save himself. She
refused to help since she knew that Bobby would have to do it himself.
When he captured her with his ice powers, she telepathically showed him
his insecurities. By confronting Opal and his father in her simulation,
Iceman realized that Emma was right and managed to transform back to his
human body with his chest fully intact.

When Graydon Creed was running for President (with a heavy anti mutant
campaign), Bobby was chosen to infiltrate in the campaign. His father
stood out in a crowd and spoke in favor of the mutants, which came as a
surprise to Bobby. His father's connection with Bobby was discovered, so
the people that worked for Graydon captured him and almost beat him to
death. Bobby decided to stay away from the X-Men for a while to be with
his dad.

Zero Tolerance came across and Bobby found and helped Cecilia Reyes who
was trying to keep a secret that she was a mutant. They also joined with
Charlotte Jones and the morlock Marrow. After Bastion was defeated, he
took Cecilia and Marrow to the mansion, and soon left the X-Men again
for a while to be with his parents.

Much later, the X-Men found evidence in one of Destiny's journals of a
group known as the Twelve, including Xavier, Magneto, Cyclops, Phoenix,
Iceman, Polaris, Storm, Cable, Bishop, Sunfire, Mikhail Rasputin and the
Living Monolith. They also learned that the Apocalypse’s Horsemen had
been kidnapping these mutants from around the globe. Iceman was captured
in the woods near his home by Deathbird, who had become the Horseman
War. Gathering the remaining Twelve, the X-Men traveled to Egypt and
confronted Apocalypse and the Skrulls. Apocalypse and his forces
captured all of the Twelve during the battle, using them in a ritual to
give the Chaos-Bringer a new body and incredible power. Magneto and
Polaris created opposite magnetic polarities, Iceman, Storm, and Sunfire
provided elemental extremes, Cyclops, Phoenix, and Cable gave the sheer
power of family, Xavier represented the power of mind and Bishop and
Mikhail stood for time and space, while the Monolith linked all their
energies together. Nate Grey was to be Apocalypse's new host, a
powerhouse to store his massive lifeforce. The Twelve managed to free
themselves and Cyclops sacrificed his own body and lifeforce to keep
Apocalypse from getting Nate. Though the new Apocalypse was defeated,
Cyclops seemed lost forever.

After that incident, Iceman helped the Beast to secretly enter Genosha,
as he wanted to study the legacy-infected mutates. When the High
Evolutionary released his anti-mutation wave, they were trapped in the
war-ravaged country. With the aid of Magneto, they escaped and joined
forces with the rest of the scattered X-Men. They raided the
Evolutionary's satellite, disabled the mutation field and defeated
Sinister, who had been manipulating the Evolutionary.

Iceman was recruited by the living ship Prosh, along with other mutants,
like Jean Grey, Mystique, Toad and Juggernaut, to preserve evolution and
save it. In this journey Iceman developed his powers even further, which
led him to no longer be afraid of the natural course of his powers and
he returned to the X-Men. He joined a new team of X-Men, consisting
of Angel, Nightcrawler, Wolverine and Chamber. He was using his
abilities in a whole new way now, just channeling the power and not
turning his body into ice.

Second mutation

During a heated battle with a recently evolved Black Tom Cassidy, he
received a chest wound. After returning to normal his chest did not
fully recover and some parts of it remained icy, and he was unable to
return them to normal. At first he became afraid of it but in time it
made him gain a new attitude in life, even rude at some times.

Nobody seemed to realize it at the time, but evidently this was an early
sign of Iceman undergoing a secondary mutation of his own. When he
repeatedly tried to evade his regular medical check-ups, school nurse
Annie Ghazikhanian recognized that something odd was going on with him
and pressured him to show her the wound. Bobby made her promise not to
tell anyone and showed her that parts of his chest are now made of ice
and he is unable to change them back to flesh and blood. Iceman wonders
if he will entirely turn into ice on a permanent basis.

He developed an attitude that, to some of the newer addition to the
X-Men, like Stacy X, Juggernaut and Northstar, he comes across as rather
arrogant, denouncing their status as team members, as they have not been
around as long as he. Iceman even went as far as offending Nightcrawler
by claiming that only the original five, and no one else, has the right
to call themselves an X-Man.

Bobby was further frustrated when Havok and Polaris announced their
imminent wedding, him having carried a torch for Lorna for quite some
time. In his frustration he turned to Annie, who had problems with the
wedding too, as she was secretly in love with Havok. The nurse surprised
him with the accusation of him being a racist - feeling comfortable as a
mutant who could pass like a human when needed, opposed to being a fully
obvious mutant or a "mere" human. With his secondary mutation
manifesting, though, Iceman was in danger of losing this status. Shocked
by the truth of her words, Bobby fully opened up about his fears, that
as a man fully made of ice he could never feel the warmth of a physical
relationship again. Touched, Annie allowed him to kiss her, but when
Havok called off the wedding, wanting to be with Annie instead, she
quickly dumped Bobby.

Upon encountering Azazel and his followers, Iceman's body is shattered
from the neck down. Afterward, he regains his entire ice form, but
cannot change back to his human appearance. As a result, Bobby becomes
both bitter and despondent because of this drastic change.

Decimation

After the events of the "House of M" storyline, Iceman finds himself to
be flesh and blood again and believes himself to have lost his powers.
Shortly after, while being held at gunpoint by the Leper Queen, Emma
Frost "pushes" something in Bobby's mind that forces him to turn to ice.
Further examination reveals that Drake had not lost his powers, but
rather had unconsciously repressed them on his own. After this, Bobby is
once again able to revert from ice to flesh.

Rogue's Team

Iceman joins Rogue's team after she tells him that she wants him as a
member. Their first mission as a team is to fight a new threat, a
powerful group known as the Children of the Vault. The team is
successful and during this time, Bobby learns that he can be completely
destroyed but then pull himself back together again. It was shown
several times during the arc.

The next mission for the team was to locate a man called Pandemic and
defeat him. The team was again successful, but Rogue was infected with a
virus called Strain 88. Cable took the team, including Bobby, to his
island so Rogue could get treatment.

While on Cable's island, the team and Iceman began working to defeat the
Shi'ar weapon known as the Hecatomb. During the chaos, he shared a
passionate kiss with Mystique. Even as he did so, he saved many
lives by containing the explosion of the Conquistador, and, later, the
Hecatomb itself.

Blinded by the Light

As the team recovers from Hecatomb attack in Rogue's childhood home, it
appears that Mystique and Iceman begin a romantic relationship. This
was a front, as Mystique was using Iceman and the X-Men as a Marauder
spy for Mister Sinister. Marauders soon infiltrated the house; they
attempt to gain access to Destiny's Diaries on the order of Mr. Sinister
(who has been gathering information about the future from anybody and
anything that could foretell the future). Bobby and Cannonball escape
from the Marauders in the X-Jet, with help from Emma Frost. They are
pursued by Sunfire; they manage to get the better of him and take him
prisoner, but not before he manages to cripple the jet. While Sunfire is
unconscious, Iceman and Sam discuss the Mauraders' plan to eliminate all
precognitive mutants and anyone with knowledge of the future as well as
retrieving Destiny's Diaries before the Marauders can. During this time,
Bobby displayed sub-atomic control of energy transfers when he prevented
Sunfire from using his fire-based powers.

Cannonball and Bobby, telepathically prompted by Emma Frost, attempt to
recover the diaries which are hidden in a dilapidated brewery. Mr.
Sinister uses the reverse-engineered version of Xavier's Cerebro to
track the pair of X-Men to the brewery. The Marauders attack Cannonball
and Iceman and overtake them. Bobby, while in his ice form, suffers a
gunshot wound from Mystique, which severs one of his arms above the
elbow. Mister Sinister, who takes Cannonball prisoner, attempts to
telepathically erase his mind so that the X-Men will find him as an
empty shell. Iceman attacks Sinister, distracting him, which allows both
of the X-Men to escape.

Messiah Complex

The New X-Men team decided to raid the headquarters of the Purifiers in
Washington, D.C., but were forced to retreat. Pixie teleported them back
to the mansion in a rush, but the entire team was scattered between D.C.
and Westchester. Iceman, after recovering from his injuries, volunteered
to go look for them and was given telepathic directions by Emma
Frost.

Iceman was successful in finding the New X-Men, most of them injured. On
the way back, they found that the O*N*E* Sentinels guarding the Xavier
Institute had become infected by nano-Sentinels and attacked the school.
Iceman and New X-Man X-23 helped out in the battle with the O*N*E*
Sentinels. With the help of Dust and X-23, the X-Men were able to
survive this battle but the nano-Sentinel infected human escaped.

Soon, Iceman participated in the final battle against the Marauders, the
Acolytes, and Predator X. He was one of the X-Men who came running in to
fight Predator X after it swallowed Wolverine whole. However, he also
witnesses his mentor, Professor Xavier, "killed" by Bishop's bullet,
which was not meant for him.

Manifest Destiny

According to writer Mike Carey, "the events leading up to "Messiah
Complex", [when Iceman] got blindsided by Mystique" are "still preying
on [Iceman] to a large extent" and "some of those events [will be
revisited]. Bobby is questioning his role as a member of the X-Men and
contemplating his trip west to San Francisco, but he's not entirely sure
what his next move is going to be." "Carey's Iceman story in
Manifest Destiny takes place before the recent "Uncanny X-Men" arc
that saw Iceman arrive in San Francisco, and follows Iceman as he
travels west on a cross-country trip to the X-Men's new home." Bobby
was having problems controlling his powers once again, so he decided to
visit Opal Tanaka, his ex-girlfriend. Opal advised him to call Beast and
ask him about it, Beast said that it may be the neural inhibitor toxins
that Mystique used on him months ago, but only by running tests on
Bobby, Beast could have a straight answer. When he entered a plane with
Opal a bomb detonates, and Opal reveals herself as Mystique. Iceman
subsequently asked if she did so to mess with his head and she replies
"No lover, your melting point." She shoots him out of the plane.

Mystique followed him to the hospital and injected him with more neural
inhibitor, this time enough to kill him, Bobby managed to find a way to
use his powers to counter the effect of the toxins and he rose "good as
new". When he confronted her again, they exchanged a passionate
conversation. Mystique cried and realized she actually did care about
Bobby and threw herself off a bridge seemingly killing herself, Bobby
realized what she meant with "kill or cure" and was grateful.

Divided We Stand

Iceman arrives in San Francisco, where he was set to meet Hepzibah,
Warpath, and Angel. All four are caught in the effects of a city-wide
illusion created by Martinique Jason, who used her powers to transform
the city into a hippie paradise. Now calling himself "Frosty", he
and the others are sent by Martinique to confront Scott Summers and Emma
Frost. Emma Frost is able to break up the illusion and free
everyone. They eventually set up their base of operations in San
Francisco as X-Men.

Secret Invasion and Utopia

Iceman is one of the X-Men that assists in fighting the Skrull invasion
in San Francisco.

Iceman rescues Colossus from Venom and is later made a part of a
team to battle Emma Frost's Dark X-Men. During the final battle on
Utopia, Iceman teams up with the X-Students to take on Mimic. Iceman
had the labor of providing water to the population. He attempted to use
humor to keep everyone's spirits up even though he believed that the
situation was helpless and that the X-Men were living in the last days
of mutantkind. Bobby then helped defeat Predator X and also helped stop
Selene's resurrected army's invasion of Utopia.

Second Coming

During the battle with Bastion's Nimrod Sentinels, Iceman is severely
injured following an attack from one of them that reversed his ice form
and left him with burns on his body. He is only there for a short
time because his mutant powers help him minimize the injuries he
suffered and he is seen back in battle alongside Psylocke and the other
X-Men.

Five Lights

When Cerebro picked up the new mutant signatures, Cyclops sent X-Men to
watch them until Hope could reach them. Iceman and Angel were sent to
watch over the Light in Canada, Laurie. The transformation into a mutant
was a painful experience and Bobby could not stand to listen to the girl
in such agony. It was when the girl was about to kill herself that Hope
arrived and was able to fully activate her powers.

Bobby was sent to talk to a super hero public relations official. During
the meeting she told him that she needed full disclosure of any of the
X-Men secrets. Bobby hesitantly told her that Magneto was back and
staying with the X-Men. The woman than asked if Worthington was funding
them still, Bobby told her yes and asked why she wanted to know, she
said because she was going to have a lot of overtime.

Curse of the Mutants

During the "Curse of the Mutants" storyline, an all out war of mutants
against vampires, Bobby was blessed by a priest so his powers can
function as holy water, a plan conceived by Cyclops.

Regenesis

Early solicitations show that after Wolverine and Cyclops have a major
falling out, Wolverine decides to branch off and open The Jean Grey
School for Higher Learning back in New York. Iceman is the first person
Wolverine approaches and recruits to his new X-Men squad as both a
professor and teammate. Iceman is chosen because Wolverine feels he has
the kind of spirit the new school needs. He has also had a
romantic relationship with Kitty Pryde.

All-New X-Men

Following the war with the Phoenix Five, as Cyclops begins to lash out
against government "oppression" of mutants, a chance comment by Bobby
about how the old Cyclops wouldn't tolerate what he is currently doing
inspires Beast to travel back in time and recruit the original five
X-Men to stop Cyclops. The past and present Bobby are particularly
shocked when they see each other. Later, the younger, time-displaced
Bobby is forced to confront being gay by his teammate, Jean, who
privately asks him why he calls women "hot", when she knows via her
psychic abilities that he is gay. This causes the younger Bobby to
speculate as to the complicated identity issues faced by his older self
and the decisions his older self may have made in the time between
them. Together with the young Jean, the young Bobby confronts his
older self, who admits to being gay, having 'concealed' that part of
himself so that he could have avoid being prejudiced against for another
part of himself.


Powers and abilities

[Iceman creates an ice slide on the cover of X-Factor #27 (1988). Art
by Walt Simonson.] Iceman possesses the power to instantly decrease the
temperature of ambient water vapor in his immediate environment to below
zero degrees Celsius, thereby freezing it into ice. He is able to make
ice that will not break unless he wills it to. In this manner he is able
to quickly form a great variety of ice structures, including
projectiles, shields, ladders, baseball bats, etc. He often makes ice
slides which form rapidly beneath and behind his feet, moving him along
the slick surface at high speeds. He is also able to form exceedingly
complicated structures within relative short time, such as miniature
cities. Originally, Iceman's own body temperature would lower
dramatically when his powers were active, reaching within a few tenths
of a second (now his body usually converts to organic ice; see below).
Iceman is immune to sub-zero temperatures; he is also able to perceive
the thermal energy level of objects around him. Because cold is the
absence of heat, Iceman does not actually 'emanate' cold; rather, he
decreases thermal energy. As mentioned by writer Mike Carey, Iceman is
"an Omega level mutant...[and] has powers that can influence the
ecosystem of the entire world." Iceman has yet to tap into his full
mutant potential, but over the years he has taken more interest in
developing his abilities.

In his early appearances, Iceman generally covered his body in a thick
layer of what appeared to be snow; hence he looked more like a
traditional snowman than an ice-man. Upon further training in the use of
his powers, he was able to fashion an armor of solid ice around his body
when using his powers, which afforded him some degree of protection
against concussive force and projectiles. Later on, he manifested the
ability to convert the tissue of his body into organic ice. He sometimes
augments his organic ice form with razor sharp adornments to his
shoulders, elbows, knees, and fists. Iceman has also been able to move
rapidly to another distant location while in his organic ice form, being
able to deposit his bodily mass into a river and reconstitute his entire
mass a great distance away in a matter of minutes (by temporarily
merging his molecules with those of the river). On one occasion, Iceman
suffered a severe chest injury while in his ice form and was able to
heal himself by converting back into his normal human form.

Iceman is also able to reconstitute his organic ice form if any part of
it is damaged, or even if it is completely shattered, without
permanently harming himself. He can temporarily add the mass of a body
of water to his own, increasing his mass, size, and strength. He can
survive not only as ice, but as liquid water and water vapor. He can
also transform his body from a gaseous state back to a solid, although
it is physically and mentally taxing. Iceman can also freeze sea
water, as seen during the "Operation Zero Tolerance" story arc. While he
usually does not use his powers in lethal ways, his powers are so vast
that they extend to the molecular level, to the point that he can freeze
all of the molecules of an object/being with a thought; he once froze
every single molecule of water within the body of David Haller.

Iceman is also able to dissolve his own icy constructs.

Iceman's powers were pushed to their limit while possessed by Emma
Frost, who used Iceman to discover the fate of her Hellions. During this
time Iceman was able to control all forms of moisture, freeze fluids
inside people's bodies, travel as a liquid, solid or gas. Not even the
combined might of the X-Men Gold team was able to stop Emma Frost in
Iceman's body. Following this, Bobby confronted Emma about how she
was able to use his powers so effectively. While together they made some
initial progress, she refused to train him further. Instead he
turned to Storm because they share similar elemental powers and she
agreed to tutor him.

When Iceman was injected with Sinister's neuro-inhibiter by Mystique, he
was able to save himself by drawing in all of the ambient moisture
around him, rapidly replacing his poisoned cells with healthy material
before the injection could kill him.

During the 2013 - 2014 "Battle of the Atom" storyline, Iceman's future
self revealed that he has the ability to create semi-independent ice
structures that can act on their own, although one of these
structures - demonstrating a Hulk-like physique and intellect - has gone
on to join the future version of the Brotherhood.

Aside from his superhuman powers, Iceman is also a fair hand-to-hand
combatant, and received combat training at Xavier's School as well as
coaching from the Black Widow and Hercules while serving with the
Champions of Los Angeles. Iceman has taken as much combat training as
Cyclops or Beast.


Characterization

Personality

According to writer Mike Carey "one of Iceman's best personality traits
is that emotionally Bobby Drake is like the ice he manipulates -- not
cold but transparent. 'He's devastatingly honest. He is very up-front
with his emotions and his thoughts all the time.'" "Also, he's
obviously incredibly brave both in terms of facing external, physical
danger as well as facing up to unpleasant situations and admitting his
own mistakes."

Friendships and relationships

Iceman had a brief relationship with a Japanese-American New Yorker
named Opal. He subsequently exhibited strong feelings for his fellow
X-Man Polaris, but she did not return those feelings, due to her
feelings towards Havok. Northstar developed an unrequited crush for
Iceman during their time on the same team, though Iceman never did find
out about this. Iceman later had a brief relationship with the
Xavier School's nurse, Annie, but she eventually left him for Havok, who
had just left Polaris at the altar. When Iceman attempted to
rekindle his relationship with Polaris, that too ended abruptly, and
Polaris returned to Havok. Iceman then had a relationship with the
X-Men's enemy Mystique, who later betrayed him, despite her continued
fixation on him, inasmuch as she stated that she would either kill him
or cure him of his personal uncertainty. Iceman began a
relationship with Kitty Pryde. However, Kitty broke up with him after
the "Battle of the Atom" storyline.

Sexuality

In All-New X-Men #40, the time displaced Iceman is revealed to be gay,
which eventually forces the youth to confront the adult version of
himself about the matter. As both speak, the adult Iceman confirms the
fact and that he had put all his energy into just being an X-Man as he
couldn't cope with being a mutant and gay simultaneously. He repressed
that one part of his life for years in order to avoid persecution; as
time passed, he developed the practice of acting as if he was straight,
attempting to test if that deception could not become reality. With the
help of his younger self and Jean Grey, however, he finally comes to
terms with his own sexuality.

Physical appearance

Iceman's appearance in ice form has changed significantly over the
years. In early X-Men stories, his appearance was reminiscent of a
snowman, apparently because frost formed on his skin when he used his
abilities. Later, Iceman learned to cover his body with
hard-but-flexible ice and adopted the crystalline appearance familiar to
modern readers. Later still, he developed the ability to actually
become organic ice, appearing almost translucent. He is virtually
indestructible in this form, as he can reform his shattered body even if
part of him is completely destroyed. As a result of an adventure in
which his mind was "hacked" by Emma Frost, Iceman assumed a more
grotesque transparent appearance, with organic bubbles, large veins, and
spiky hair. Since this experience, Iceman has regained control over his
powers and refined his appearance with jagged spikes on his limbs, back,
and hair.


Other versions

1602

Iceman is Roberto Trefusis in the miniseries  1602, a member of
the group of "witchbreeds" founded by Carlos Javier and led by Scotius
Summerisle. He is the nephew of naval commander Sir Francis Drake. As in
the  Universe, he generates ice and can assume a physical ice
form.

"Age of Apocalypse"

In the "Age of Apocalypse" storyline, Bobby, along with the rest of the
X-Men, is trained by Magneto. Because Magneto is harder on his
students than Professor X, Bobby lacks his 616-counterpart's sense of
humor. Instead, Bobby becomes very cold and inhuman, making his
teammates feel uncomfortable. In addition to his normal abilities, Bobby
is capable of breaking down his body and merging it with another body of
water to travel great distances in a matter of seconds. He can bring
others along through a process that he calls "moisture molecular
inversion", though it is a painful process for the passengers. Bobby is
also able to reconstitute his body from broken pieces. Just before
Apocalypse's defeat, Colossus stormed right through Iceman, causing him
to fall into pieces in an attempt to reach his sister. A couple of
months later, Iceman, Exodus, Wild Child, and Morph were sent on a
secret mission by Magneto; for a time, only Wild Child's fate was
revealed.

Iceman returned in the Uncanny X-Force arc "The Dark Angel Saga", when
the title team was forced to travel to the AoA reality. He
abandoned the X-Men during a battle with the minions of Weapon X, who
had by this time been transformed into that world's new Apocalypse, a
defection later revealed to be the result of Iceman's having lost faith
in his X-Men's ability to save their world. He was soon brought to
Earth-616 by the Dark Beast, where he joined forces with Archangel on
his quest to eradicate all life on Earth so he could create a new
evolution process. Tired of seeing the people he cared about being
killed fighting what he thought to be an unwinnable war, Drake agreed to
help Archangel - despite the latter's now being the mainstream 
Universe's version of Drake's X-Men's arch-enemy, Apocalypse - in
exchange for transport to the relative paradise that was Earth-616.

After X-Force defeated Archangel, Bobby managed to escape with McCoy and
most of Archangel's other minions, but eventually broke away from them
and went into hiding, living a life of hedonistic bliss in Madripoor.
The "Age of Apocalypse" version of Nightcrawler - who, after being
brought to Earth-616 along with the rest of his world's X-Men to help
take down Archangel, decided to stay behind there in order to track down
and kill the various villains who also came to the mainstream 
Universe - eventually tracked Bobby down to execute him for his treason.
Nightcrawler is quickly overwhelmed by Drake's avatars, but eventually
forces Iceman into a factory boiler room, where there's not enough
moisture in the air for him to effectively use his powers. Nightcrawler
quickly disables his former friend, and shoves him into an incinerator,
killing the once noble hero.

Earth X

During the miniseries Earth X, Bobby had become trapped in his ice
form, making him vulnerable to melting. He moves to the Arctic regions
of Earth, and made an ice city for himself and the Inuit. Due to a
series of events where Earth's orbital path moves, Bobby is able to
return to the United States to aid in the battle against the demon
Mephisto.

"House of M"

In the alternate timeline of the "House of M" storyline, Iceman was seen
in Magneto's army during his rise to power. Bobby later appears as
one of the Horsemen of Apocalypse because Apocalypse rescued Bobby from
a mutant internment camp that his parents had sent him to. Magneto sends
Apocalypse to dispose of his rival Black Panther; when Apocalypse is
attacked en route by Black Panther's allies, Iceman aids him by freezing
Namor solid and attempting to attack Storm, but he is severely injured
by Sunfire.

 Zombies

A zombified Iceman appears in  Zombies: Dead Days alongside
zombies Wolverine and Cyclops. Ultimately, he is seen attacking Magneto.
But Iceman perished at the hands of the Master Of Magnetism himself when
Iceman is cut apart.

Mutant X

In the Mutant X universe, the Asgardian god Loki amplified Bobby's
powers to a dangerous level, leaving him unable to touch any living
thing without killing it. Despite this, he retains a jovial and
optimistic personality. When Havok has a disagreement with Magneto and
decides to leave the X-Men, Ice-Man is one of those who follow him,
becoming a founding member of the Six, who eventually come to be
considered the world's premiere mutant team.

New Exiles

After the New Exiles land on the world of warring empires, they
encounter Dame Emma Frost, head of Britain's Department X and founder of
Force-X. This team includes Roberta "Bobby" Drake, a female version of
Bobby who is codenamed Aurion and displays ice-based abilities.

"Battle of the Atom"

In the alternate future witnessed in the "Battle of the Atom" storyline,
Iceman's future self is shown in a long brown robe with a long beard and
ice staff, prompting the present Bobby to compare himself to a wizard.
He has also developed the ability to create semi-independent ice
structures that can act on their own, although one of these structures -
demonstrating a Hulk-like physique and intellect - has gone on to join
the future version of the Brotherhood, resulting in the Brotherhood
using the duplicate to reinforce the illusion of themselves as the
future X-Men. The duplicate Iceman was defeated by the O5 Iceman, the
present Iceman, and the future Iceman during the battle in the past
(Prompting the youngest Iceman to note that they only needed one more
Iceman for a five-a-side basketball team).

Ronin

In the alternate reality of X-Men: Ronin Iceman is a murderous ninja
in the employ of the Hellfire Club. He works with Pyro and Avalanche as
part of the 'Shadowcat Clan' and battles the X-Men.

Shadow-X

New Excalibur battles an evil counterpart of Iceman, who is a member of
the Shadow-X, the X-Men of an alternate reality in which Professor X was
possessed by the Shadow King. They are brought to Earth-616 as a result
of M-Day. He appeared to be mute and died during the final battle
against Albion.

Spider-Verse

In Edge of Spider-verse: Web of Fear, a Spider-Man who is a member of
the Captain Britain Corps witnesses Morlun about to kill Spider-Man.
Later, a larger picture is shown of Firestar and Iceman lying dead, with
Ms. Lion being left out, mourning her comrades. This universe is an
alternate version of Spider-Man and his Amazing Friends designated as
Earth-1983.

 Noir

Iceman appears in X-Men Noir as one of the X Men, a crew of talented
criminals. He is depicted as being very short-tempered and paranoid. He
is dubbed "Iceman", and angrily insists others refer to him that way,
due to his custom of using an icepick as a weapon.

Ultimate 

In the Ultimate  continuity, Bobby Drake is the youngest founding
member of the X-Men. He ran away from his family at the peak of
government-supported Sentinel attacks, fearing his family would be
killed in such an attack.

Ultimate Iceman never had the snowman look of his counterpart, instead
generating a flexible ice armor from the beginning. Bobby establishes
himself as a valuable asset, singlehandedly taking out the Ultimates
once with a gigantic ice wall (see Ultimate War), as well as
singlehandedly halting an invasion by Colonel Wraith and Weapon X. He
was only able to be stopped by Rogue, who was in temporary possession of
 Girl's telepathy. Professor X has stated that Bobby is one of the
three most powerful X-Men. During the World Tour arc, after enlarging
his armor to form a gigantic ice troll, Bobby is greatly injured by
Proteus, which resulted in a lawsuit issued by his parents against
Xavier. Bobby eventually rebels against his parents, and later returns
to the X-Men.

While Bobby was away from the X-Men on a vacation, he had a girlfriend,
but Professor Xavier erased all memories of her from Bobby's mind when
he told her too much about the X-Men (he presumably also erased the
girl's memories). Upon her acceptance into the X-Men, Bobby begins to
date Rogue. The pair date for a considerable amount of time, but
eventually break up due to Bobby's growing feelings for Shadowcat and
Rogue's feelings for Gambit. Eventually Rogue leaves, and Bobby starts
to date Kitty. After this, the two rekindle their relationship, but
problems erupted.

In Ultimate X-Men #80, Bishop and Hammer, time-travellers from the
future, comment on how powerful Bobby will one day become. Cyclops
disbanded the X-Men in Ultimate X-Men #81 and Bishop and Storm created
a new team. Iceman stayed at the Institute as a student only until
Xavier returned and reformed his X-Men.

Professor X is later revealed to be alive and the X-Men return to the
Xavier Institute, which is also when Iceman rejoins the X-Men line up.
Jean Grey soon discovers that fellow X-Man, Colossus, is using a drug
called Banshee to enhance his mutant abilities. The X-Men are highly
against this, but Colossus manages to convince Rogue, Dazzler, Angel,
Nightcrawler, and Cyclops to join him on his own X-Men team. Iceman
remains on Professor X's drug-free X-Men and fights the Banshee enhanced
X-Men. Xavier's X-Men win and the two teams combine again with nobody
using drugs.

The Ultimatum Wave hits the X-Men next killing several of the X-Men
(Beast, Dazzler, and Nightcrawler). Magneto and the Brotherhood attack
the world and Iceman helps the world's heroes fight them off. Most of
the X-Men die, but Iceman (alongside Rogue, Storm, Colossus, and Jean
Grey) is able to survive Magneto's attack. He is last seen demolishing
the X-Mansion alongside Rogue and Jean Grey and burying the deceased
X-Men in its place. He finds it hard to destroy their home, but he feels
it to be the right thing to do now that Professor Xavier is dead.

Later, Bobby Drake is kicked out of his home for being a mutant. With
nowhere else to go, Kitty suggests to Peter Parkers' Aunt May that he
move in with her, Peter, Gwen Stacy, and Johnny Storm (who also recently
moved in their household). Aunt May agrees and enrolls Bobby at Midtown
High under the guise of Bobby Parker, one of Peters' cousins and shaves
his hair off to help keep his, Peter's and Johnny's secret identities
safe.

Without knowing where to go after Peter's death, Bobby Drake asked Kitty
Pride if Johhny could come with them searching for a place where to live
and hide from authorities. They found the Morlock Tunnels where they
live now and help mutants in danger. Firstly they rescued Rogue, who
joined them, and later Jimmy Hudson (the son of Wolverine), came to them
for help after escaping Stryker's imprisonment along with other mutants
he freed.

X-Men Fairy Tales

In X-Men Fairy Tales (issue #1), Iceman appears as a white wolf with
icy breath named Kori (Japanese for ice). Before he is reached by
Cyclops, he appears to have lost faith in friendship.

X-Men: The End

In X-Men: The End, Iceman appears as one of the instrumental
characters in the defeat of Cassandra Nova and Khan and one of the few
surviving X-Men.


In other media

Television

[Iceman as he appeared in Spider-Man and His Amazing Friends.]

-   Iceman's first television appearance was in the 1966 The
    Sub-Mariner portion of The  Super Heroes episode "Dr.
    Dooms Day".
-   Iceman was one of the three main characters in the animated series
    Spider-Man and His Amazing Friends, voiced by Frank Welker. In a
    few episodes, he appears with his and Firestar's former teammates,
    the X-Men. In the episode "Vengeance Of Loki", he's revealed to be a
    government agent; his codename is "Winhill Factor Zero". In the
    episode "Mission: Save The Guardstar", Aurora Dante (Lightwave)
    (his half-sister) was introduced. One entire episode was devoted to
    Iceman's origin story. Throughout the series, Iceman has a romantic
    infatuation with Firestar.
-   He appeared in the 1992 X-Men animated series, voiced by Dennis
    Akayama. He appears in the episode "Cold Comfort" as a former member
    of the team, who quit due to disagreements with Xavier. Iceman also
    appears in many flashbacks which include "Sanctuary Part 1" and
    "Xavier Remembers".
-   He appeared in the X-Men: Evolution animated series, voiced by
    Andrew Francis. Iceman was meant to be the 8th X-Man of the show,
    but rejected in favor of Spyke. Not surprisingly, Iceman appeared
    more often when Spyke left. In the series, Iceman was a New Mutant
    and often acted as the unofficial leader of the New Mutants, as he
    was the most adept of the group.
-   Iceman appears in Wolverine and the X-Men, voiced by Yuri
    Lowenthal. He appears as a member of the X-Men who left after
    Professor X went M.I.A. after the Institute was destroyed. Wolverine
    and Beast went to re-recruit him back on to the X-Men but his
    parents refused to allow him to return to the team after
    what happened. Being 18, Bobby had the choice to either stay at home
    or return to the X-Men and he made the choice to rejoin the team.
    Since he is still in his teens, he's shown at times acting like a
    typical teenage boy (such as his facial expression after Emma Frost
    walks by him in episode 3). He is also not fond of reading and is a
    bit lazy as he was napping on a pile of books instead of giving them
    to Kitty to put away. He apparently has a crush on Shadowcat, as he
    is caught staring at her dreamily before asking her out for a bite
    to eat (although they were already eating). It is also hinted she
    may share those feelings, as in episode 3 when Kitty elbows him for
    looking at Emma. In episode 20, someone similar to Iceman is shown
    as a member of the original five X-Men.
-   Iceman appears in the episode of The Super Hero Squad Show titled
    "Mysterious Mayhem at Mutant Academy", with Shawn Ashmore reprising
    his role as the character from the live action X-Men films. He is
    shown as a student at Xavier Academy and classified as the
    class clown. He has a starring role in the later episode "The Ice
    Melt Cometh" where he is needed to re-freeze the melted polar ice
    caps.

Film

[Bobby Drake/Iceman as portrayed by Shawn Ashmore in X-Men: The Last
Stand] In the films, X-Men, X2, X-Men: The Last Stand, and
X-Men: Days of Future Past, he is played by Shawn Ashmore. Bobby is
one of the first students to reach out to Rogue and begins a romantic
relationship with her. In X2, he has an uneasy friendship/rivalry with
Pyro. His relationship with his family is also strained, and his brother
actually turns Bobby in to the police out of jealousy. In X-Men: The
Last Stand, his relationship with Rogue appears to be deteriorating,
strained by their inability to have physical contact and by his close
friendship with Kitty Pryde. During a battle with Pyro, now working for
Magneto's Brotherhood, he achieves the ability to transform into his ice
form from the comics. In the original dystopian timeline of X-Men: Days
of Future Past, Iceman is more powerful, transforming into ice and
travelling on ice slides, but is nevertheless killed while fighting the
Sentinels. After Kitty and Wolverine change the timeline, Iceman is seen
once again in a relationship with Rogue at the Xavier Mansion. Bobby's
scenes vary in the Days of Future Past known as The Rogue Cut, where
he is killed by Sentinels while helping Rogue and Magneto to
escape. Ashmore told IGN that he would love to portray his
character in a stand-alone film, but is unsure about getting his own
solo film. After revelations about Iceman's sexual
orientation, Ashmore told the same outlet that he would be "interested"
in exploring the character's sexuality in potential future
appearances.

Novels

In the novelization for X-Men: The Last Stand, Iceman saves Pyro from
the destruction of Dark Phoenix.

Video games

-   Iceman makes an appearance as a bonus level boss in the 1997
    Fantastic Four game.
-   Iceman has appeared in various video game adaptations, such as
    X-Men: Children of the Atom and the subsequent  vs. Capcom
    2. Notably, he is the only character in the game immune to chip
    damage from beam and fireball projectiles, however War Machine's
    missiles are able to chip him.
-   He also has appeared as a playable character in X-Men Legends,
    voiced by Darren Scott. His skills could be improved in either
    ranged combat (ice beam, ice shards) or melee combat (improved ice
    armor, ice fists). He can "fly" for short distances as his
    double-jump move allows him to use his ice slides.
-   Iceman appears as a playable character in X-Men Legends II: Rise of
    Apocalypse, voiced by James Arnold Taylor. He has special dialogue
    with Grizzly. His powers include damaging frost attacks, ice fists,
    and strong melee combat.
-   Iceman is one of the three playable characters in X-Men: The
    Official Game (which fills in the gap between X2: X-Men United
    and X-Men: The Last Stand), voiced by Shawn Ashmore (the same
    actor who played him in the films).
-   Iceman appears in : Ultimate Alliance as a playable
    character, retaining many of his moves from the Legends games, and
    voiced again by James Arnold Taylor. His Age of Apocalypse
    appearance (referred to as Spikey), classic costume (his standard
    look), original costume (his first comic appearances, with his face
    completely frosted over), and Bobby Drake (the look he adopts in the
    New X-Men series and his subsequent solo series: he appears in his
    human form, wearing a leather trenchcoat, with only his hands
    appearing frozen) are alternate costumes for Iceman. In this game,
    he retains his X-Men Legends abilities, like that of creating ice
    slides instead of double-jumping. He has special dialogue with Black
    Widow, Namor (when he's sick), Namorita, Professor X, Gladiator,
    Henry Pym, and Ymir. Also, at the beginning of Mephisto's Realm, he
    complains to Xavier about being in Mephisto's Realm (due to all the
    fire and lava). A simulation disk has Iceman fighting Mysterio in
    Mephisto's Realm and another one has Storm defending him and
    Wolverine from Hussar in Murderworld.
-   Iceman appears as a playable character in : Ultimate Alliance
    2, voiced by Adam Bobrow.
-   Amongst many other mutants, Drake is seen going to the new mutant
    home - Taa II - led by Magneto, in Magneto's ending in  vs.
    Capcom 3.
-   Iceman appears in X-Men: Destiny, voiced by Jason Marsden.
-   Iceman is a playable character in  Super Hero Squad Online.
    He is voiced by Shawn Ashmore, who reprised his role of Iceman.
-   Iceman appears as a playable character in the 2012 fighting game
     Avengers: Battle for Earth.
-   Iceman appears as a playable character in Lego  Super
    Heroes, voiced by Yuri Lowenthal.
-   Iceman is a playable character in the Facebook game :
    Avengers Alliance.
-   Iceman is a playable character in  Heroes, voiced by James
    Arnold Taylor.

