IRON LAD (NATHANIEL "NATE" RICHARDS) is a fictional superhero appearing
in American comic books published by . The character
appears in particular in Young Avengers, a team of which Iron Lad is a
member. He first appeared in Young Avengers #1 (April 2005), created
by writer Allan Heinberg and illustrator Jim Cheung. He is an adolescent
version of Kang the Conqueror, armed with a bio-metal suit that responds
to mental commands. He is named after the father of Reed Richards.


Fictional character biography

Sixteen-year-old NATHANIEL "NATE" RICHARDS is rescued by his
time-traveling adult self, the villainous Kang the Conqueror, moments
before bullies would cause him to be hospitalized for years of his life
from a knife attack, an event that originally shaped his development
into a villain. Kang takes his teenage self through time to witness the
future battles and glory that would result in his transformation into
Kang the Conqueror, hoping to inspire his younger self. However, it
backfires and Nate is horrified at the life of evil his future self
shows him. Kang presses Nate to accept his future by killing the bully
who would have hospitalized him. Instead, Nate takes the time travel
technology given to him by Kang and transports himself to the past,
hoping to avoid his sinister destiny.

He seeks the Avengers for assistance, but finds the Avengers disbanded.
Seeking answers, he downloads the remnants of the destroyed Vision's
operating system into his armor. This reveals a fail-safe plan created
by the android to reform the Avengers should they disband or fall in
action by locating the next generation of Avengers, all whom have some
tie to the original team. Using this plan, Nate assembles his new team,
the Young Avengers, with the sole purpose of defeating his future self
and reshaping his own future. He models his armor after the Avenger Iron
Man, calling himself IRON LAD. He forms a brief romantic relationship
with fellow Young Avenger teammate Stature.

Eventually, Kang comes to the past looking for Nate, wanting to return
his younger self to his proper place in the timestream. Nate refuses to
return, unwilling to become the infamous future villain. The team battle
the Growing Man, a robot created by Kang, and are able to defeat him.
Kang battles the remaining Avengers and the teen heroes, seemingly
gaining the upper hand when Iron Lad runs Hawkeye's sword through Kang's
chest. This kills Kang, but the ramifications cause several changes to
the timeline, including all the Avengers being dead and Young Avengers
Wiccan and Hulkling disappearing as well as Jessica Jones losing her
baby. Iron Lad realizes that the only way to restore everything is to go
back to his time and assume his role as Kang the Conqueror. In doing so
he will also lose his memories of his time in the past as a Young
Avenger. Before he goes back in time, he asks his teammates to forgive
him for the actions he will commit in the future and kisses Stature
goodbye. He leaves behind his armor, which has activated the Vision's
operating software, effectively recreating the armor into a sentient
being—an inexperienced "young" Vision. The new Vision carries Nate's
brain patterns, similar to the original Vision and Wonder Man.

Stature and the Vision eventually feel attracted to one another, due
initially to Nate's mental imprint. They later begin a relationship.
While fighting the cosmic cube-altered Absorbing Man, during the "Dark
Reign" storyline, the new Vision (now a joint member of the Young
Avengers and the Mighty Avengers) is affected by the cube's cosmic
radiation and splits into both Iron Lad and the original Vision. Iron
Lad appears to maintain the memories of the events prior to going back
in time. After the Absorbing Man is defeated, the original Vision and
Iron Lad merge back together as the new Vision once again.

Iron Lad appears in the 2010-12 miniseries, Avengers: The Children's
Crusade, in which he prevents Wolverine from killing an amnesiac and
de-powered Wanda Maximoff (whom Wolverine feels presents too great a
threat). Iron Lad states that he does this because the future depends on
their survival. Soon thereafter, Stature's deceased father Ant-Man
(Scott Lang) is plucked from the past and saved, but Stature is killed.
Iron Lad insists upon travelling back to the past to save her, and he
kills the new Vision when he protests. When the Young Avengers tell Iron
Lad that this is most likely the event that will lead him down the path
to becoming Kang the Conqueror, he states that "I will be better than
Kang the Conqueror", and disappears into the timestream.

Nate, now going by the name KID IMMORTUS, later provides information to
Doctor Doom regarding the Future Foundation. He is also seen in the
company of a young Ravonna.

After Doom's plan fails, Iron Lad returns and rescues Captain America
from the timestream. He and two of his future counterparts, Kang and
Immortus, attempt to hold Captain America prisoner so that he cannot
interfere with the Illuminati's plan to save Earth by destroying
numerous alternate worlds, but the Captain manages to escape.


Powers and abilities

Nate's Iron Lad armor is composed of neuro-kinetic nano-metal and he can
alter its appearance and shape with his thoughts. The armor grants Iron
Lad superhuman strength and allows him to fly. It also enables him to
fire blasts of various kinds of energy, hack into computer systems,
create magnetic fields and travel through time. Kang's psychic link with
his armor also enables him to mentally control the Iron Lad armor from a
close range.


Other versions

In What If the Runaways had formed the Young Avengers?, with Iron Lad
having never learned about the Vision's Avengers' Fail-Safe Initiative,
he instead recruits the Runaways as his allies, forcing them to be an
actual superhero team with costumes. Although it is later revealed that
the Iron Lad that brought them together was actually Victor Mancha— Iron
Lad ran into Victor's future self when attempting to flee to the
Avengers' era, with Victorious travelling back with him and using Victor
to hi-jack his equipment— Kang's attempt to rescue his younger self
results in Iron Lad being killed and Kang being erased from history.
After Victor destroys his future self, he departs via Kang's time-belt
to find his own way, leaving the Runaways to continue as Young Avengers,
with Chase Stein now using parts of the Iron Lad armor after he was
injured in their last fight.

