ISAIAH BRADLEY is a fictional character appearing in American comic
books published by . The character is depicted as an early
product of the United States' Super-Soldier program (codenamed Project:
Rebirth) during World War II and an alternate version of CAPTAIN
AMERICA.


Publication history

As depicted in the 2003 limited series Truth: Red, White & Black, the
World War II Super Soldier program of 1942, operated by "Reinstein" (Dr.
Wilfred Nagel, employing an alias previously used by Dr. Abraham
Erskine), uses African American test subjects to re-create the formula
that had been used to turn Steve Rogers from a skinny, but patriotic,
army reject into Captain America. The clandestine experimentation that
empowers Isaiah holds similarities with the Tuskegee Syphilis
Study.


Concept and creation

The original concept for the character came from an offhand comment by
's publisher, Bill Jemas. Axel Alonso was taken by the idea and
pursued it, as it offered a chance to tell a larger story about
America's history. Robert Morales, who was brought in to write the
story, created the supporting cast and the ending. The idea of an
African American Captain America made Morales laugh, but, once he heard
the premise, he found it depressing. Bradley's strong marriage came from
an unsuccessful Luke Cage proposal by Brian Azzarello. Morales
originally envisioned the character as a scientist who experimented on
himself, a reference to Silver Age scientists Reed Richards and Bruce
Banner; however,  wanted a more explicit reference to the Tuskegee
Syphilis Study. Morales was able to push through an ending in which
Bradley suffered brain damage, a reference to Muhammad Ali that gave the
character a tragic ending. Morales performed extensive research into the
time period, which he balanced with editorial suggestions.


Fictional character biography

Project: Rebirth begins as a collaboration between US, British and
German eugenicists led by Dr. "Josef Reinstein" (real name Dr. Wilfred
Nagel), and Dr. Koch. When World War II begins, Koch takes over the
German program and Josef Reinstein takes over the American program. Each
attempts to recreate the super soldier serum which had previously turned
Steve Rogers into Captain America a year prior to Pearl Harbor.
Reinstein's early attempts to refine the formula are tested on
African-Americans. Three hundred of these soldiers are taken from Camp
Cathcart and subjected to potentially fatal experiments at an
undisclosed location, as seen in Truth: Red, White & Black. Only five
subjects survive the original trials. In the name of secrecy, US
soldiers execute the camp's commander and hundreds of black soldiers
left behind at Camp Cathcart. The government tells the families of the
three hundred subjects that their loved ones had died in battle.

Due to field missions in Europe and internal strife, Bradley emerges the
sole survivor of his test group. He steals a spare costume and a shield
intended for Captain America before he engages in a suicide mission to
destroy the Super-Soldier efforts of the Nazis at the Schwarzebitte
concentration camp. There, he is able to assassinate Koch, but the
mission ends when the Germans capture Bradley. Nazi interest in the
American supersoldier is high; he is even brought before the Führer
himself, who decides to dissect him in order to reverse engineer his
powers and send the spare parts back to America as a message. Bradley is
later rescued by German insurgents, only to be court-martialed and
imprisoned at Leavenworth around 1943. In 1960, Bradley is pardoned by
President Eisenhower and released.

Considered to be the "Black Captain America", Isaiah Bradley is depicted
as an underground legend among much of the African-American community in
the  Universe. A number of the most noted Africans and
African-Americans of the twentieth century's last four decades visit
Bradley as a sign of respect and, in many cases, hero worship. He
receives fictional visits from Malcolm X, Richard Pryor, Muhammad Ali,
Angela Davis, Alex Haley, Nelson Mandela, and Colin Powell. Outside
the Black community, however, he remains largely unknown. When he
arrives as a special guest at the wedding of Storm and the Black
Panther, several African-American heroes are awestruck, including Luke
Cage (who describes him as "the first me"), Goliath (Bill Foster),
Monica Rambeau, Triathlon, and the Falcon. However, the Canadian-born
Wolverine is totally unaware of the man's identity or importance.

Josiah X

While Isaiah is in prison, the government attempts to use his altered
DNA to create another Super-Soldier. After 39 attempts the result is a
child named Josiah, Isaiah and Faith's genetic son. Josiah X, as he
would later call himself, is born to a surrogate mother, who smuggles
him out of the government's clutches.

Steve Rogers

Meanwhile, the long-term effects of the test serum severely damage
Isaiah Bradley's mind and body, similar in part to the effects of
various steroids and Alzheimer's. In 2003, Steve Rogers (Captain
America) learns the truth behind the Super-Soldier program and attempts
a reconciliation with the now-childlike Isaiah Bradley. However,
Captain America never discovers that the true mastermind behind the
Super-Soldier program is the clandestine organization Weapon Plus and
that Bradley is only one in a long line of Weapons, including
Wolverine and Fantomex.

Patriot

Isaiah is also the grandfather of Elijah Bradley (aka Patriot of the
Young Avengers). Elijah initially claims that his powers originated from
a blood transfusion from Isaiah, whereby he gained the abilities of the
super soldier serum; however, it is subsequently revealed that this is a
lie, and Elijah really gains his powers artificially from the drug
Mutant Growth Hormone. The Young Avengers convince him that he does not
need superpowers to be a superhero, and he becomes the head of the Young
Avengers using his intelligence and natural athletic abilities. Eli is
critically injured in a battle with the Kree and Skrulls, and he ends up
getting the blood transfusion from his grandfather.


Powers, abilities, and equipment

While Isaiah possesses no superhuman powers as such, the super soldier
formula running through his veins means that, physically, he is the
perfect human: his agility, dexterity, strength, speed, endurance,
reflex and reaction time, coordination, and balance are superior to any
Olympic athlete who has or ever will compete. Once it is metabolized,
the super soldier formula enhances all of his bodily functions to the
peak of human efficiency: his body eliminates any excessive build-up of
lactic acid and other fatigue poisons in his muscles, which grants him
phenomenal endurance; he has an extraordinary immunity to disease; and
his aging process is also slowed dramatically. Isaiah is trained in
unarmed combat by the US Army.

Isaiah carries a concave triangular metal shield, useful for either
defense or offense, which he decorated with the Double V campaign eagle
crest, a symbol of a victory against the Axis as well as a victory
against racial discrimination at home. For protection, he wears a
loose chain mesh shirt over light padding; the shirt is capable of
blunting the impact of most small arms fire.


Other versions

-   In Captain America vol. 4, #28, an Isaiah Bradley from an
    alternate Earth becomes Captain America and never marries. Later, he
    is elected president and serves two terms. He travels back in
    time, incidentally crossing to Earth-616, and brings the mainstream
    Captain America and Rebecca Quan forward into his own time to
    prevent his daughter, Rebecca "Becky" Barnes, from traveling
    to Earth-616.
-   Though Bradley hasn't appeared in any Ultimate  title, the
    origins of Ultimate Nick Fury share many similarities with Bradley,
    as well with Luke Cage. During World War II, Nick Fury is
    unwillingly inducted into a United States government experiment to
    recreate the Super Soldier Serum. The only subject to survive, Fury
    leaves the experiment with a healing factor, enhanced physical
    attributes and slowed or halted aging. In a 1980s-set flashback
    that opens Miles Morales: The Ultimate Spider-Man #8, Miles
    Morales's father and uncle meet two black men in the back room of a
    club, one of whom (Turk Barrett) says an "Izzy" had just been
    "telling us what really happened to Captain America back in World
    War II." It is unclear if the Izzy mentioned refers to the other
    man, who would presumably be Bradley, or one of several girls in
    the room.
-   In the Spider-Gwen reality, Isaiah Bradley was mentioned to be a
    US Army Private who was one of the four candidates (consisting of
    himself, Bucky Barnes, Steve Rogers, and Samantha Wilson) for the
    Strategic Scientific Reserve's Project Rebirth. Like Bucky Barnes
    and Steve Rogers, Isaiah was heavily damaged during the operation's
    sabotage caused by Nazi double-agents. With Bucky and Steve also in
    the same status, Samantha Wilson became Captain America.


Captain America timeline

Clarifying the timeline for Isaiah Bradley and Steve Rogers—and who
predates whom—Robert Morales states in his appendix to the Truth: Red,
White & Black trade paperback collection (2004):

Truth co-creator Kyle Baker further clarified the respective timelines
of Bradley and Rogers in an interview:

Editor Axel Alonso described the debate as internet fans unfairly
prejudging the series based on assumptions that it tarnished Captain
America's legacy.


Analysis

The character of Isaiah Bradley sends a message on race relations,
conspiracy theory, and in a less measure performance enhancement in
sports.


Collected editions

Stories he has appeared in have been collected into graphic novels:

-   Truth: Red, White & Black (collects Truth: Red, White & Black
    #1-7, by Robert Morales and Kyle Baker); published in 2004.
    Reprinted in 2009 as Captain America: Truth.
-   Captain America: Homeland (collects Captain America vol. 4
    #21-28, by Robert Morales, Chris Bachalo and Eddie Campbell);
    published in 2004.

