JACK FLAG (JACK HARRISON) is a fictional character appearing in American
comic books published by .


Publication history

He first appeared in Captain America (1st series) #434 (December
1994), and was created by Mark Gruenwald and Dave Hoover.


Fictional character biography

Jack and his brother, Drake, were members of Captain America's computer
hotline network and they created a citizen's patrol group in their
hometown, Sandhaven, Arizona. Drake was attacked by a couple of
criminals and the attack left him unable to use his legs. After the
attack, Jack and Drake discovered that the Serpent Society had
infiltrated their hometown and they had attempted to contact the local
authorities, but the Serpent Society had paid them all off. Jack was
unhappy with this information so he began training in the martial arts
and weight lifting so that he could fight the Serpent Society himself.
He took on a disguise that he thought would make Captain America proud
and began to fight crime as Jack Flag.

During a bank robbery, Jack intervened and stopped Rock Python and
Fer-de-Lance (both of whom were members of the Serpent Society). Shortly
after this, Jack attempted to infiltrate the Society, but King Cobra did
not fully trust Flag. King Cobra sent him to rob a painting from Mr.
Hyde, who severely beat Jack. While fighting, Flag was drenched in
Hyde's chemicals and developed superhuman physical powers. After
receiving his new powers, Flag easily defeated Mr. Hyde and retrieved
the painting that he was supposed to steal for the Serpent Society.
Before returning the painting to the King Cobra, Flag contacted Captain
America's hotline and informed them that the Serpent Society was in
Sandhaven. Impressed that he was able to defeat Mr. Hyde, Cobra tried
out Jack as a new King Cobra. While Flag was undercover with the Serpent
Society, Captain America, and his protégé, Free Spirit, showed up to aid
Jack and defeat the Society. Jack followed Captain America and Free
Spirit east, aiding them against ULTIMATUM, AIM, and Maap. When
Captain America believed he was dying, he charged Jack, Free Spirit,
Fabian Stankowicz and Zach Moonhunter with maintaining his hotline.

Against the Thunderbolts

Jack Flag helps a girl escape a group of gangbangers and is targeted by
the new Thunderbolts for violating the Superhuman Registration Act.
He is able to subdue almost all of the Thunderbolts team, but is then
stabbed in the spine by Bullseye while escaping, puncturing his cauda
equina and apparently leaving him paralyzed, with Bullseye stating that
Flag would "Never walk again". He is then taken into custody, where
he is severely beaten by an enraged Swordsman.

Guardians of the Galaxy

Flag is shown leading the prisoners of the Negative Zone prison against
Blaastar's army, despite the fact that he now uses a wheelchair.
After escaping with the Guardians of the Galaxy, Jack's spine is
repaired, in two minutes, by Knowhere's medical staff and he opts to
remain on the station rather than return to Earth (where he would be
considered a fugitive). He later joins the Guardians as part of 'The
Kree Team' during the crossover event War of Kings, and is still an
active member of the team in The Thanos Imperative.

