JACK POWER, currently known as MASS MASTER, formerly COUNTERWEIGHT and
DESTROYER, is a fictional character in ' universe. He first
appeared in Power Pack #1 and was created by Louise Simonson and June
Brigman.


Publication history

Jack was a founding member of the superhero team Power Pack. The second
youngest of the four Power siblings, he was 8 1/2 years old when
he was given his powers by Aelfyre Whitemane, a dying Kymellian noble.
He continued to operate with Power Pack through their entire history.


Fictional character biography

Jack Power was born in Richmond, Virginia. Brash and ornery, Jack was
the "wild child" of the Power siblings. He frequently insulted and
argued with both his teammates and his adversaries. Queen Maraud, Power
Pack's archenemy, feared him more than the other children because she
thought he would be the most likely to take advantage of the lethal
nature of his powers.

However, his bold nature also made him a key fighter for the team. He
possessed a tremendous amount of loyalty and courage, and usually kept a
cool head even during stressful situations. Jack jumped into the East
River to help his sister Katie escape from an ocean liner. He even
taunted the Snark Jakal who was about to kill him with "Can't even kill
someone until Mommy tells you to?!".

Jack was perhaps the most innovative member of the Pack in terms of
developing new power variations. When he received new powers, he was
able to figure them out quickly and invent new uses for them. He was
significantly better at controlling his gravity powers than Alex.

Recently, Jack retained his bold personality, but also showed a kinder,
gentler side, opting to leave the team to care for his mother.


Age discrepancies

Jack was 8 in the original series; in the 2000 miniseries, he was
12, though this would suggest Jack had aged four years where his
siblings had aged only three. Considering Julie Power, his older sister
of two years, is now 17, Jack may now be considered to be 15 by proxy if
his age in the 2000 miniseries is now considered canon by 
writers. In the All Ages 2005 miniseries comics (set in an alternate
universe), Jack is 10.


Powers and abilities

-   Jack's first power was control over his own density. Initially, he
    was only able to turn himself into a cloudy, gaseous form. After a
    while, he learned how to make himself small and dense. Jack's major
    defenses were his ability to "go cloudy" and escape from people who
    were physically attacking him, and the "Jack Hammer," in which he
    dropped onto his enemies in his super-dense form. Several years
    later, Jack was able to create the molecular density force field
    first used by his sister Julie as Molecula.
-   Jack later gained his brother Alex's gravity powers. He could
    de-gravitize himself and anything he touched, float, and increase
    gravitational force. Jack modified his powers by developing the
    "Super-G" punch, in which he used a super-gravitized fist to hit
    his adversaries. With this tactic, Jack was able to knock out
    Arclight during the Mutant Massacre. Jack refused to use the wings
    that Alex had used in order to fly and took the name Counterweight.
-   Jack then gained the energy powers previously held by Katie and
    Alex. The energy powers allowed him to disintegrate matter and
    convert it into stored energy, as well as absorb existing energy
    directed against him. He could then project this stored energy as
    explosive spheres (referred to as "power balls").
-   Jack eventually regained his original powers and took on his
    original codename of Mass Master.

Along with his siblings, Jack possessed Kymellian healing powers.
Usually, he was required to work with his siblings to generate and use
this ability; however, he occasionally accessed it on his own.

With his siblings, Jack owned a Kymellian smartship, Friday. The ship
acted as an unofficial team advisor and accompanied the Pack on several
missions.

Jack wears a costume of unstable molecules created by Friday. The
costume exists in an extra-dimensional space known as "Elsewhere" until
summoned by voice command (the wearer would say the words "costume
on!"). The costume also houses a communicator which is used to
communicate with Friday, and was later modified to include a mask.
As with all the team's costumes, the pockets of the costume can be used
as an access point to Elsewhere itself, where the cartoon-like creatures
known simply as "The Tailors" reside in a colorful wonderland of talking
dinosaurs, enchanted forests, mad monarchs, surreal architecture, and
malleable physical laws.


Other versions

Avengers and Power Pack Assemble!

In issues #3 & #4 of the Avengers and Power Pack Assemble!_ miniseries,
a 20-year-old Jack Power appeared in an alternate timeline. Having had
his powers disrupted by Kang; Jack was stuck in his cloud form, and had
to remain in a sealed, upgraded Iron Man-type armor to keep from
dissipating.

Fantastic Four and Power Pack

Within issue #4 of the Fantastic Four and Power Pack miniseries, Jack
is called by his full name, which is Jonathan. It is unknown whether
this name is the same for the 616 version of Mass Master.

Millennial Visions

In the "Power Pack: Starting Over" story within 's 2001
Millennial Visions one-shot comic, Jack was depicted as a 28-year-old
drifter who had undergone treatment for addiction in rehab. He was also
forced to remain in cloudy form, having lost the control to regain his
solid shape.

