JACK OF HEARTS (JACK HART) is a fictional character, a superhero
appearing in American comic books published by . The
character first appeared in Deadly Hands of Kung Fu 22, and was created
by writer Bill Mantlo and artist Keith Giffen. He starred in his own 4
issue mini series and has been a regular character in the Iron Man
comics as well as at one point being a regular in the Avengers comic
book.

Jack of Hearts, real name Jack Hart is the son of scientist Philip Hart
that created "Zero Fluid" and an alien woman from the race Contraxian.
As a young man Jack was doused in Zero Fluid and gained super powers but
was not in total control of his powers. In an attempt to control his
powers Jack of Hearts built a containment suit that resembled The Jack
of Hearts playing card. The lack of control became a recurring theme
with Jack of Hearts, including his stint in the Avengers where he had to
spend 14 hours a day in a containment room to prevent self destruction.
When his powers became uncontrollable he chose to leave earth, exploding
in space without harming any innocent bystanders.

The (at the time) unexplained return of Jack of Hearts and the explosion
that killed Scott Lang on the Avengers law was the launching point of
the Avengers Disassembled storyline in 2004/2005. The character was
resurrected as part of one of the  Zombies mini series where Zero
Energy reforms into Jack of Hearts, bringing the character back to life.
The Zombies were later defeated with the help of Jack of Hearts.


Publication history

Jack of Hearts first appeared in the black & white magazine Deadly
Hands of Kung Fu #22 (March, 1976), and was created by writer Bill
Mantlo and illustrator Keith Giffen. He was presented as an antagonist
for the superhero White Tiger but his origin story in the following
issue established him as a hero. His debut appearance in a color comic
book was in The Incredible Hulk vol. 2 #214 (August 1977) where he
fights the Hulk. He later serves a brief stint as an ally and apprentice
of Iron Man, becoming a regular cast member of the series during
Mantlo's tenure as writer.

Jack has made various guest appearances in several books over the years,
including  Two-In-One, The Defenders,  Premiere, (in a
solo story meant to launch the character in his own series) ROM, and
 Team-Up, (which served as an intro to his 1984 mini-series)
among others. He starred in his own self-titled, four issue limited
series from January to April 1984.

He was later made a regular in The Avengers by writer Kurt Busiek, who
explained, "I first ran into Jack in Deadly Hands of Kung Fu in an
issue drawn by Gil Kane and Rico Rival. That great overcomplicated
costume and the energy that Gil put into the storytelling hooked me, and
I’ve been a fan ever since."


Fictional character biography

Early life

Jack Hart was born in New Haven, Connecticut. He is the son of Philip
Hart, a scientist who created an energy source called "zero fluid", and
Marie, an alien humanoid woman of the Contraxian race. After being
exposed to a vat of zero fluid, Jack underwent a mutagenic change and
gained the ability to project concussive energy from his body. After
gaining these powers, Jack began his mission of vengeance against the
Corporation that killed his father. This led to Jack fighting other
superheroes such as the Sons of the Tiger and the Hulk. He also fought
the White Tiger. Eventually, he killed Stryke, his father's
killer.

Later, Jack mistakenly fought Iron Man. Being new to super-heroics, he
asked Iron Man to take him on as an apprentice, which he did, to show
him the ropes. Jack teamed with Iron Man, Nick Fury, Guardsman, Jasper
Sitwell, Jean DeWolff, and the Wraith, and battled Midas. Jack was
briefly turned to a golden living statue by Midas, and then freed from
this golden state by Iron Man and Yellowjacket. Jack then aided Iron
Man in fighting the Soviet Super-Soldiers on the moon. Jack aided
Iron Man against the Rigellian Commander Arcturus. Jack later went
off on his own, and fought Hemlock.

Being a Hero

Later, Jack moved past his mission of blind vengeance and became a true
hero, working with various other superheroes such as the Defenders. Jack
fought the Thing, who was under mental control of the Machinesmith.
Jack Hart was then reunited with a college girlfriend named Marcy Kane
(who was also a fellow graduate student of Peter Parker, a.k.a.
Spider-Man). Marcy, a scientist, and S.H.I.E.L.D. offered to help find a
cure for Jack's dangerous super powers. Jack fought some S.H.I.E.L.D.
agents, and his powers were temporarily dampened by Spider-Man.
Marcy turned out to be a Contraxian agent sent to Earth to find Jack. It
was at this time Jack learned of his half-Contraxian heritage. Marcy
took Jack to Contraxia, where he discovered that his powers had
increased exponentially, and saved the home-world of his mother by
reenergizing its dying sun. The Contraxians could not find a solution
for Jack's unstable powers, and he left Contraxia to wander outer space
in exile.

While wandering space he was captured by the Stranger. He later escaped
captivity on the Stranger's planet. Jack fought Quasar during his
return to Earth; however, Jack exploded when his containment suit was
breached in battle with the Presence. Jack was retrieved from space,
revived and mentally controlled by Moondragon, and he attacked
Kismet. The damage to his armor led Jack to seek aid from the Silver
Surfer, who found an alien armorer on Anvil who designed a new
containment suit for Jack. Jack then battled Nebula and Geatar.
Shortly after this adventure, Jack fell in love with the alien warrior
woman known as Ganymede, though she did not return his feelings.

In an effort to save R-76, an outpost manned by the Rigellians, Jack of
Hearts was injured in battle with the Servitors. Jack was rescued by a
team of Avengers, and succeeded in convincing the Infinites to restore
R-76. Subsequently, Jack and these Avengers were captured, first by
the Shi'Ar, and then by the Ruul acting under the orders of the Supreme
Intelligence. Jack and the Avengers eventually escaped to Earth and
helped reverse a plan to have Earth consumed by Ego the Living
Planet.

Jack's return to Earth happened during the period known as the Kang War,
and Jack of Hearts was accepted as a member of the Avengers, becoming
the fifty-second superhero to join the team, though the traditional
welcoming ceremony for new Avengers were deferred given the nature of
the crisis they faced. During his tenure, the Avengers teamed-up
with the Justice League of America, and fought the Red Skull for
unleashing a biological weapon at Mount Rushmore, killing many
civilians.

Death

When his power levels began to increase beyond the capacity for his
containment suit, Jack of Hearts chose to commit suicide rather than
continue living in an isolated containment room for 14 hours a day. Jack
took a child murderer who had abducted Cassandra Lang, the daughter of
Scott Lang (the second Ant-Man), along with him when he exploded in
space. With his uniform destroyed in the blast, the naked body of Jack
of Hearts drifted deeper into space.

Avengers Disassembled

At the onset of the "Avengers Disassembled" event, Jack reappeared in
uniform as what appeared to be a zombie just long enough to blow himself
up, killing Scott Lang and destroying half of the Avengers Mansion.
Jack's return was caused by the reality-shifting powers of the Scarlet
Witch through methods that have remained ambiguous. Unlike his prior
explosion in space, Jack's body was never recovered from the ruins.

Afterlife

During the adventures of Hercules in Hades, Jack can be seen playing
slots to win a chance to return to the living. This is not the intended
way the afterlife should operate, according to the characters. Jack
wins, and excitedly declares that he is next for resurrection.

The Children's Crusade

Iron Lad (the young Kang the Conqueror) transports the Young Avengers
and the amnesiac Wanda, no longer the Scarlet Witch, back to the onset
of the "Avengers Disassembled" when Jack had been used as a weapon to
destroy the Avengers. While there they discovered that he was actually
the real Jack of Hearts, summoned by Scarlet Witch. Undead and quite
miserable, Jack pleads with Wanda not to go through with her monstrous
plan, unaware that he is facing a different Wanda. The pity of this and
the horror of seeing Jack blow himself up, shocks Wanda into recovering
her memory—and therefore her powers. As an unexpected side effect, the
life of Scott Lang is also saved, as the Young Avengers take Scott back
to the future with them when they depart, thus saving his life while
preserving the timeline as everyone still 'saw' him 'die' in the
explosion. Jack's last words before exploding were "I'm sorry."

 Zombies Supreme and resurrection

Jack Hart returned to life once more in the second issue of the 
Zombies Supreme mini-series. While defending scientists at Project
Pegasus, (which has been besieged by zombiefied clones of the Squadron
Supreme) a team of special operatives led by Jill Harper and the
superhero known as Battlestar came across a source of zero-point energy
which Harper believed could help them stop the zombies. The zero-point
energy unexpectedly reformed itself into corporeal form as Jack, who
returned to life wearing his original suit for unexplained reasons.
Harper managed to revive Jack, who was temporarily amnesiac and fainting
from the stress of becoming human again. Although initially weakened,
Jack quickly regained control of his powers and assessed the situation.
Using his powers, Jack destroyed the zombies and saved Harper's life
after she became infected with the zombie virus. Afterwards, the two
shared a romantic kiss.


Powers and abilities

Jack Hart's superhuman powers are as a result of the mutagenic effect of
his father's "Zero Fluid," combined with the alien genes from his
Contraxian mother. He has superhuman stamina and durability. Jack of
Hearts also has the ability to generate "zero energy" within his body
and project it as concussive force or intense heat or as a propellant to
fly. Jack is sometimes unable to exert complete control over his
energies, however. For a short time after restarting Contraxia's sun, he
uncontrollably radiated enough heat to melt one of Contraxia's polar ice
caps. He can survive unprotected in space. Jack of Hearts's brain
has incorporated the artificial intelligence of a computerized device
called the Scanalyzer, enabling him to think with the speed of a
computer and store and retrieve information with a computer-like
capacity and efficiency.

The left half of Jack of Hearts' body has turned purplish-black from
direct exposure to "Zero Fluid". Jack of Hearts' left eye has an opaque
white membrane covering the entire pupil. These mutations were not
solely caused by exposure to the "Zero Fluid", but are actually aspects
of his half-Contraxian genetics brought to the fore, as Contraxians
naturally have such appearances.

Jack originally wore a suit of armor crafted in medieval Europe. His
second suit of armor was designed by Torval, and made from alien
materials designed to contain the zero energy his body generates.
His original suit of armor was later restored and upgraded by Moondragon
after Jack was rescued from space by the Avengers and thus leading to
his connection with the team.

Jack is a fair hand-to-hand combatant, has had some S.H.I.E.L.D. combat
training, and is a talented poet.


In other media

-   Jack of Hearts will appear as playble character in Lego 's
    Avengers.
-   In Silver Surfer Jack of Hearts is seen as part of Nebula's crew .

