JENNIFER KALE is a fictional character, a sorceress in the 
universe.


Publication history

Jennifer Kale was created by Steve Gerber and Rich Buckler, and debuted
in Adventure into Fear #11 (December 1972). She is the cousin of Ghost
Riders Johnny Blaze and Danny Ketch, and a founding member of the Legion
of Night. She is based on one of Gerber's friends, Jennifer Meyer. She
has appeared as a supporting character of Doctor Strange and her
connection to Man-Thing is strong enough that she knows his true
identity and sometimes calls him "Ted".


Fictional character biography

Zhered-Na was a sorceress in Atlantis c. 18,000 BC. Exiled by emperor
Kamuu for her prophecy that Atlantis would sink, Zhered-Na was relocated
to the mainland Thurian continent where she taught about her god Valka.
These lessons spawned the Cult of Zhered-Na. When Kamuu caused the Great
Cataclysm while warring against Lemuria, sinking Atlantis, Zhered-Na
was killed by an evacuee. Zhered-Na's former apprentice, Dakimh,
continued her teachings and perpetuated the Cult throughout his extended
lifespan. Centuries ago, an unnamed demon and angel shared the mystic
knowledge of their realms with cultist Illyana Kale, who added it to her
own knowledge to complete the Tome of Zhered-Na. To prevent the
knowledge's abuse, only the combination of a Kale family member and
angelic and demonic agents could utilize the Tome.

Jennifer was born into the Kale family, born in the fictional town of
Citrusville, Florida, and living in the Florida swamp regions. Attuned
to mystical forces since birth, she began studying her family's history
at an early age and eventually became an asset and ally to the
Man-Thing. Jennifer learned of the Tome via her grandfather Joshua, who
led the modern incarnation of the Cult. Soon after, Jennifer and
Man-Thing became mentally bonded, and she learned his identity as Ted
Sallis and his life history. Dakimh put Jennifer and Man-Thing to the
test in a mock execution in which Man-Thing welded Mongu's axe to his
hand, after which he granted them freedom. Drawing energies from the
angelic realm Therea, Jennifer was sent to the demonic realm Sominus to
free the Tome and prevent Earth's invasion by the demonic Thog, which
also ended Jennifer's mental bond with Man-Thing. After being plagued
with incapacitating (and real) dreams of the world of Katharta, the
aged Dakimh then took Jennifer as his apprentice. Jennifer joined the
Dakimh, Man-Thing, Howard the Duck and Korrek in opposing further plots
of Thog and the Congress of Realities, the wizard Klonus and
barbarian Mortak, and the mad demon Bzzk'joh and his Imperium
Emporium organization. She was later kidnapped by Baron Mordo as
part of a power bid involving using thirteen people as a human sacrifice
to the Chaos Demon. Mordo restored Ted's mind and gave him a bogus
promise to restore his body. Jennifer's words helped to keep Ted in
line, but his appearance was causing him to go insane, so Doctor Strange
was forced to remove his intelligence.

Even after Joshua's death, his spirit continued to advise Jennifer.
Between her efforts to live a normal life at various colleges, she has
been drawn into numerous magical conflicts, including learning of her
familial connection to the Ghost Rider. She reflects upon this fact when
Eternity calls upon her aid. When last seen (aside from in a vision)
in the pages of Ghost Rider, she was riding on the back of Johnny
Blaze's motorcycle trying to help him find his kids, supposedly last
seen with Wendigo during the Siege of Darkness, although Wendigo was not
involved in the Siege of Darkness, and Blaze got his kids back in
Blaze #12, after the Siege of Darkness and before Jennifer met Blaze.
Blaze says that they got bus tickets back to New York by selling the
bike.

Jennifer was also once sought out to help the mutant team known as
X-Force. She helped against Pandemonia, who had taken mystic control of
several of their other members. Based on their description of her,
Jennifer identified her via her Demonic Corcordance text. Jennifer
joined X-Force in confronting Pandemonia. She freed Pandemonia's mental
slaves (Locus, Meltdown, Warpath, Skids, Sunspot) and, assisted by
Danielle Moonstar, she banished Pandemonia back to her home dimension on
the chaos plane. Jennifer examined the reality warping energies that
Danielle Moonstar had recently begun to display, confirming that they
were not supernatural in origin. Later, Jennifer taught t'ai chi to
members of X-Force, having become friends with Danielle Moonstar. Again
some time later, Jennifer assisted X-Force against the Queen of Star
Swords, the extra-dimensional counterpart of Moonstar's friend, Arcadia
Deville, who summoned four counterparts of Moonstar herself, and another
reality's Cable, which also drew Man-Thing to their location. [Jennifer
Kale as drawn by Mike Deodato for the Witches series.]

Witches

The demon Marduk Kurios, one of many to use the alias Satan, duped
Jennifer's brother Andrew into touching the Tome of Zhered-Na. Hereby
they unleashed the curse of the Hellphyr which threatened to destroy all
magical beings on Earth. Jennifer was recruited by Doctor Strange,
alongside some other magical heroes to oppose this plot. During the
battle, Jennifer was forced to slay her Hellphyr-possessed brother.
After the battle, Jennifer refused to surrender her familial Tome to
Doctor Strange, who had lied to her about his true intentions of
possessing the Tome for himself. Instead Jennifer decided to remain with
fellow magicians Topaz and Satana. Together, they formed the group known
as the Witches, hoping to keep the world safe from mystical threats and
stop would-be thieves from stealing her family book.

 Zombies 3

Kale appears with Wundarr the Aquarian and Siege as a member of
Florida's Fifty State Initiative team, "The Command", which is sent to
Citrusville (home of Man-Thing) to investigate strange sightings. There
they are attacked by zombies who have been transported from the 
Zombies universe to Earth-616. They are then attacked by zombie
Deadpool, who uses throwing knives to sever the tendons in her arm to
prevent her from casting spells. Wundarr throws Deadpool into the blades
of a nearby skiff and Kale activates them, reducing most of Deadpool's
body to a bloody pulp. Siege, who has been turned into a zombie, attacks
Kale and breaks her ankle before his cybernetic parts take over and
shoot his head off. She is later shown quarantined at A.R.M.O.R.
headquarters, apparently shellshocked. She sits in her room,
paralyzed with fear, as zombies began to infect the A.R.M.O.R. personnel
and take over the base.

The Initiative

Jennifer is later shown defending Florida during the Skrull invasion,
her body and mind sufficiently healed for her to engage magic in combat
against a Skrull in Florida.

 Zombies 4

Jennifer appears as part of the new Midnight Sons team, killing zombie
Men-Fish and fighting their leader, Piranha. Dormammu comes and offers
her his power when she is in grave peril, leaving her to make a decision
with no time to spare. Desperate after seeing Jack Russell
apparently infected with the zombie virus, she calls on Dormammu and
accepts his offer. Jennifer then battled Daimon Hellstrom, who helps
free her from Dormammu's control, and she confines the zombie virus
inside the Zombie (Simon Garth) with the Black Talon's help.

Dark Reign

Because Strange had abused his position as Sorcerer Supreme, he had to
seek out a successor, searching all over Earth in hopes of finding one.
As he tells to Wiccan (who lacked knowledge of both Kale and the
Man-Thing), he managed to track down Jennifer, though for some reason he
had great difficulty in doing so, but determined that she was not the
one, despite his belief that she would have been suitable due to her
high ability.

Heroic Age

Jennifer tried to stop the Thunderbolts from using Man-Thing as their
transportation, recalling him to the swamp to fight off an invasion from
the Nexus of All Realities. Eventually, she realized that Man-Thing was
willingly working with the Thunderbolts, and that she would simply need
to alert him any time someone broke through.

Jennifer is apparently killed by Victoria Hand who is at the time
possessed by Daniel Drumm. Drumm wanted to eliminate all users of
dark magic before enacting his revenge on Doctor Strange and the New
Avengers.

Jennifer uses dark magic to return to life, but at the cost of having no
skin on the right side of her face. Her resurrection is kept mostly
secret from the world, but Maria Hill recruits her to support Elektra
against Bullseye and the Hand.


Powers and abilities

Though initially only a novice in the mystic arts of the 
Universe, Jennifer Kale held tremendous potential for wielding magic and
has since honed it through many years of intensive training and
tutelage. Though her training was based upon the brand of magic wielded
by Zhered-Na, she has since been tutored by other sorcerers and she is
also self-taught to a degree. As of now, Kale can fire magical bolts,
form shields, open dimensional portals, mesmerize people, affect the
memories of others, teleport herself and others, and cast numerous
spells for a variety of effects.

The Tome of Zhered-Na is named after the antediluvian sorceress who
foretold the end of Atlantis, and the Tome allegedly possessed all the
mysticism known to man and demonkind at the time of its creation. For
speaking this truth, Zhered-Na was banished and set adrift upon the sea.
While she floated, her god, Valka whispered secrets to her about the
world and the world of the future. After many weeks she landed at Thuria
and founded the Cult of Zhered-Na. She lived and taught there until she
was slain by the demon D'Spayre. Atlantis met its fate that same day.
Two spirits rescued the wisdom of Zhered-Na and decades later gave it to
Illyana Kale, the descendant of a cult member. Kale was inspired then to
write the Tome. Certain deities felt that too many secrets were
contained inside the Book, so they placed the demon Hellphyr inside its
pages to ward away unwelcome users. When the Book was recently opened
and Hellphyr was released, Illyana's descendant Jennifer Kale joined
with fellow witches Topaz and Satana to stop the demon and save the
Tome. The Tome of Zhered-Na is currently with Jennifer Kale. Though
presumably less powerful than the Darkhold or the Book of the Vishanti,
it is nonetheless powerful enough to strike awe into the Sorcerer
Supreme Doctor Strange and was sealed so only a member of the Kale
lineage could access it, and only then assisted by a representative of
divinity and a representative of the underworld.


Sexuality

While Jennifer did have a boyfriend named Bernard Drabble during her
time in the Legion of Night, and was originally shown with a boyfriend
named Jaxon (surname unrevealed), and shown romancing a boy named
Chris in Over the Edge #2, in the Ghost Rider series her cousin
Danny Ketch has a vision of a life where their family never was involved
in magic. In this scenario he envisions Jennifer (who has been depicted
throughout the series with a "butch" haircut) as having a girlfriend of
three years named Marie. Later during her encounter with Satana, the
latter suggests that Jennifer is not interested in boys and makes a
snide comment about Jennifer staring at her chest.

Jennifer was officially recognized as bisexual in the Official Handbook
of the  Universe: Mystic Arcana - The Book of  Magic (2007)
in the entry for Witches - the informal trio of Kale, Topaz, and
Satana.

In  Zombies 4, Jennifer Kale quotes Topaz as having called her
"girlfriend" in an ironic sense.


Other versions

Earth-89112

The final remaining among Earth's mystics and superheroes that were not
turned into demons after the loss of Inferno convene at the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York. Jennifer Kale is among the mystics, along with
Doctor Strange, Dakimh, Daimon Hellstrom, Dr. Druid, Margali Szardos,
Shaman, and Baron Mordo. She-Hulk interrupts their mystic circle, and
S'ym's demon horde, led by the demonically possessed Incredible Hulk and
Wolverine, immediately burst in. The Hulk smashes Jennifer's skull and
crushes She-Hulk's neck, while Wolverine slashes to death Dr. Druid, The
Captain, and Spider-Man, and the other mystics, apart from Strange and
Mordo, are destroyed in friendly (and suicidal) fire from Thor.

Earth-973

Jennifer Kale, back with long hair and a prominent ring on her right
nostril, is picked up hitchhiking by Daniel Ketch, a tool of Mephisto,
and is murdered and dumped in Fresh Kills Landfill.

 MAX

In Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa's 2008  MAX retelling of Man-Thing's
origin (which is supposed to be Roderick Krupp's interpretation of the
story—Krupp is considered highly untrustworthy by Ulysses
Bloodstone), Jennifer Kale is 22 years old, and 10-year-old Andrew
Kale's legal guardian (they were much closer in age in the original
material). She works as an exotic dancer as the Witch Woman, which also
doubles for her witch's-garb when she is actually casting spells.
She helps to save some amateur documentarians from mutates created in
the Super Soldier Experiments, but not from Ellen Brandt leading forces
of A.I.M., although she is able to protect herself and Andy from A.I.M.
using a magic chalk circle.

Weirdworld

During the Secret Wars storyline, a variation of Jennifer Kale resides
on the Battleworld domain of Weirdworld where she is the Queen of the
Man-Things that reside in the Forest of the Man-Things. After a brief
conversation with the two warriors, the Swamp Queen forced Arkon and
Skull the Slayer to face their fears in order to survive it and become
her allies against le Fay. However, only Skull the Slayer accepted the
offer to become her ally while Arkon continued to look for his kingdom
of Polemachus.


In other media

Video games

-   Jennifer makes a cameo appearance in Doctor Strange's ending in
    Ultimate  vs. Capcom 3 as part of a gathering of mystics
    from across the  and Capcom universes.

