JESSICA CAMPBELL JONES CAGE is a fictional superheroine appearing in
American comic books published by . Created by writer Brian
Michael Bendis and artist Michael Gaydos, the character first appeared
in Alias #1 (November 2001), a Max imprint. Within the context of
's shared universe, Jones is a former superhero who becomes the
owner and sole employee of Alias Private Investigations. Bendis
originally envisioned the series centred around Jessica Drew, and had
only decided to create Jones once he noticed that the main character had
a distinct voice and background that differentiated from Drew.

Jones has since starred in two ongoing series, Alias and The Pulse.
Alias ran for 28 issues before ending in 2004, while The Pulse ran
for 14 issues from April 2004 to May 2006. She became a member of the
New Avengers alongside her husband Luke Cage during 's 2010 Heroic
Age campaign. At various points in her history, Jones has used various
aliases, including JEWEL, KNIGHTRESS, and POWER WOMAN. The character has
been adapted into various forms of media outside of comic books, and in
2015 she made her live-action debut in the  Cinematic Universe
with the Netflix television series 's Jessica Jones, portrayed
by Krysten Ritter.


Creation

Jessica Jones debuted in the  MAX imprint series Alias in
November 2001. The character and series were created by writer Brian
Michael Bendis and artist Michael Gaydos. Alias ran for 28 issues from
2001 to 2004, with most covers drawn by David W. Mack. After the end of
the series, Jones and other characters from the series moved to Bendis's
subsequent series, The Pulse. In a 2005 interview, Bendis claimed:

  "Originally, Alias was going to star Jessica Drew, but it became
  something else entirely. Which is good, because had we used Jessica,
  it would have been off continuity and bad storytelling." Previously,
  Bendis commented "I was at one time toying with doing Jessica Drew [in
  Alias] because she has the best hair of any superhero in comics, but
  this book is entirely different than what that idea was to be."

By the time Bendis was actively developing the title, Jones was his
central character, one with a distinct background and voice from
Drew.

Jessica Jones appeared as a regular character throughout the 2010–2013
New Avengers series, from issue #1 (August 2010) through its final
issue #34 (January 2013). In a  poast, Bendis expressed
his desire to incorporate Jones into the parallel universe Ultimate
 imprint. In Ultimate Spider-Man #106, she appears as a
senior at Peter Parker's school.


Fictional character biography

Origin

Midtown High student Jessica Campbell went to school with Peter Parker,
and was present when he was bitten by the irradiated spider which gave
him his radioactive powers. Jessica's father received tickets for
Disney World from his boss Tony Stark. On the way home, their car
collided with a military convoy carrying radioactive chemicals. Her
family was killed, and she spent several months in a coma. Upon waking,
she was placed in an orphanage and adopted by the Jones family.
Jessica later discovered that her radiation exposure granted her super
strength, limited invulnerability, and flight (which she never fully
mastered during her superhero career). Jessica's adoptive parents
re-enrolled her at Midtown High, where she was ostracized by her
classmates, especially Flash Thompson. Peter Parker (who had since
become Spider-Man) sensed in Jessica a kindred spirit—someone who had
also lost her family due to a tragic circumstance. Jessica mistook his
kind attention and lashed out at him, believing he was merely pitying
her. She later witnessed a fight between Spider-Man and the villain
Sandman in her own class. This inspired her to use her abilities in a
positive light.

Early years

As Jewel, Jones had a fairly uneventful superhero career until she
intervened in a disturbance at a restaurant involving Zebediah
Killgrave, the Purple Man. Killgrave used his power of mind control to
place Jones under his command, psychologically torturing her and forcing
her to aid his criminal schemes. After Killgrave sends her to kill
Daredevil at the Avengers Mansion, Jones is rescued due to the
intervention of Carol Danvers, the only Avenger who actually knew
her. Jones underwent psychic therapy with Jean Grey of the X-Men,
who placed a special mental command in Jones's subconscious that would
protect her from further mind control. During this time, Jones
developed a temporary romantic relationship with S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Clay
Quartermain. Due to the violating nature of her experience with
Killgrave, and the fact that she was barely noticed missing for eight
months, prompted a demoralized and depressed Jones to give up her
costumed superhero life. Jones briefly adopts a darker identity as
the Knightress and intercepts a crime meeting between the Owl and a
mafioso, through which she meets up with fellow superhero Luke Cage.
After defeating the Owl, Luke Cage went to her home later that night and
the two had a long talk, the first step toward a lasting friendship.
Jones, no longer a superhero, opened a private detective agency.
Longtime friend Carol Danvers set Jones up with Scott Lang (the second
Ant-Man), and the two dated for several months. She also had an
off-and-on affair with Luke Cage. Killgrave, still obsessed with
Jones, escaped from high-security incarceration, but with the mental
defences Grey had given her, Jones knocked him out and he was
recaptured. Later, Cage and Jones admitted their feelings for each
other and after becoming pregnant with their child, Jones began a
committed relationship with Cage.

The Pulse and Young Avengers

Jones took a leave from the detective business and joined the staff of
the Daily Bugle as a superhero correspondent and consultant, becoming
a main character of the comic book The Pulse, and a contributor to the
same-name fictional newspaper supplement within. A pregnant Jones was
attacked by the Green Goblin after the Bugle reported that he was
secretly industrialist Norman Osborn. In response, Cage retaliated and
Osborn was irrevocably exposed as the Goblin upon his defeat and
incarceration. Jones quit her job with the Bugle after publisher J.
Jonah Jameson used the paper to smear the New Avengers. Jones and Cage
are living together when she gives birth to their child, whom they name
Danielle after Luke's best friend, Danny Rand. Cage and Jones marry
in New Avengers Annual #1. Jones appears as a supporting character
in Young Avengers until the series ended. She returned in Avengers:
The Children's Crusade #6 in which she, Beast and Hawkeye attempted to
defuse the situation between the Avengers and X-Men who were fighting
over who was to punish the Scarlet Witch. She helped fight Doctor Doom
and was present when Stature and the Vision were killed. She was seen
hugging Hulkling in the final panel when the team was declared
full-fledged Avengers by Captain America who unveiled a statue of the
Vision and Stature.

Civil War, Secret Invasion and Dark Reign

In 's 2006–2007 crossover storyline "Civil War", Jones and Cage
reject Iron Man and Ms.  offer to join the Superhuman Registration
Act. As part of the New Avengers, Jones moved into Doctor Strange's
Sanctum Sanctorum, but after an attack involving the demonic villain the
Hood, Jones, shaken by the experience and desperate to protect her
child, left the New Avengers and registered for the Superhuman
Registration Act, ending her relationship with Luke Cage for the time
being. Jones was among the heroes who emerged from the crashed
Skrull ship wearing her Jewel costume, although it would later be
revealed this Jones was a Skrull. The real Jessica Jones
appeared in Secret Invasion #7, where she joined in the heroes' fight
against the Skrulls and was able to be reunited with her husband. After
the Skrull surrender, the Skrull impersonating Jarvis disappeared with
their daughter, leaving Jessica desperate.

Jessica was unaware that Luke asked Norman Osborn for help in their
search for Danielle. Osborn helped Luke recover Danielle, and Luke
gave the baby back to Jessica. Spider-Man recently re-revealed
himself as Peter Parker to the New Avengers, leaving Jones shocked to
see that her former classmate is Spider-Man. She then told Peter of her
former crush on him only to find out that he did not recognize her all
this time, let alone remember her name, only remembering her as "Coma
Girl", upsetting her. She later assisted the Avengers in rescuing
Clint after being captured by Norman Osborn. Jessica revealed that
she was inspired to become a superheroine after witnessing an early
battle between Spider-Man and the Sandman. Peter then tried to convince
Jones to return to the life of a superhero, suggesting that she could
provide a better example for her daughter by going into action as a hero
rather than simply telling her daughter about her old career.

Recent years

During the storylines of 's 2010 "Heroic Age" branding campaign,
Jessica, returning to her costumed identity of Jewel, became a member of
the New Avengers when the title relaunched in June 2010. She and
Luke began searching for a nanny, interviewing characters featured from
other comics set in the  Universe. Ultimately, Squirrel Girl was
chosen as Danielle's nanny. In New Avengers #8, Jessica took the
name POWER WOMAN to both honor her husband, Power Man (Luke Cage), and
to be a role model for their daughter. However following several
incidents revolving around Thule Society attacking Avengers Mansion,
and Norman Osborn's threat, Jessica quit the team and went into
hiding, realizing that it was too dangerous for Danielle to remain in
Avengers Mansion due to the numerous potential threats.

Jessica later appeared as an ally to the Mighty Avengers team formed by
Luke Cage. Jessica and Danielle lived in the apartment of the Gem
Theater, which was serving as the Mighty Avenger's base of operations.
She and Luke would later be confronted by the Superior Spider-Man and
his Spider Robots, who offered her a place on a different type of
Avengers team that was to be run by him. Jessica swiftly found a baby
sitter for her child and refused before delivering a powerful punch to
Spider-Man's face for threatening her child. The group was later backed
up by She-Hulk and she and Jessica decided to go out for coffee. Jessica
and Luke would later switch apartments with an old friend of Luke's
named David Griffiths. While moving in, Jessica spoke to the Blue 
about what it's like to raise a child of superheroes and expressed both
her support and annoyance at her husband's choice to start another team
of Avengers.


Powers and abilities

After coming into contact with experimental chemicals and spending some
time in a coma, Jessica emerged with superhuman abilities. She possesses
superhuman strength, as well as flight, and is known to block mind
control because of her strength. She shows the capacity to lift a
two-ton police car with little apparent effort. Her strength allowed her
to lift up a giant-sized Goliath by the nostrils and toss him a short
distance, break Atlas's nose, and render her fellow superheroine Jessica
Drew unconscious with a single punch to the face. She later withstood
being punched by a human on Mutant Growth Hormone and suffered only mild
bruising and a bloody nose, and was able to recover in moments after
being shocked by Jessica Drew's venom blasts. Despite this resistance to
harm, Jessica suffered severe injuries, including a damaged spine and
neck, a detached retina, and a broken nose after being attacked by both
the Vision and Iron Man.

Jessica is also able to fly, and while she was able to fly quite well
during her early years as a heroine, she has admitted that her flying
ability degenerated while she was no longer an active hero. She has
since displayed improved flying ability after joining the New Avengers.

After her ordeal at the hands of the Purple Man, Jessica was given a
degree of psionic protection by Jean Grey of the X-Men. This psionic
protection was sufficient to protect Jessica against a second attack by
the Purple Man, though she had to "trigger" this resistance on her
own.

In addition to her superhuman powers, Jessica is a skilled detective and
investigative journalist.


Other versions

[Ultimate Jessica Jones. Art by David Lafuente.] Multiple versions of
Jessica Jones have appeared in 's multiverse. In the 2005 "House
of M" storyline, Jessica was apparently dating Scott Lang. In What
If, Jones accepted Captain America's offer to work for S.H.I.E.L.D..
Perceiving that something was amiss with Wanda Maximoff (the Scarlet
Witch), she alerted the other Avengers, ensuring that the catastrophic
events depicted in "Avengers Disassembled" and "House of M" would never
occur. Jessica married Captain America. In Ultimate Spider-Man,
Jones appeared as a senior student in the school Peter Parker attended.
She was the executive producer of the school's television network. She
later became jealous of Mary Jane Watson's superior film skills. She
attempted to deduce Spider-Man's secret identity for the school
newspaper and may have been suspicious about Peter Parker. Later on
after the events of Ultimatum, she claimed to have abandoned her
attempts to figure out who Spider-Man was and instead wanted to focus on
his heroics.


In other media

Television

[Krysten Ritter as Jessica Jones in the Netflix original series,
's Jessica Jones.] On November 20, 2015, a live-action,
eponymous series was released on Netflix, with the title character
portrayed by Krysten Ritter as an adult and by Elizabeth
Cappuccino as a teenager. During her earlier life, Jessica Jones was the
survivor of a car accident that killed her parents and family. After
coming out of a coma, Jessica was legally adopted by talent agent
Dorothy Walker, therefore becoming the adopted sister of Trish Walker.
In her later life, Jones attempts to track down a man named Killgrave, a
figure from her past. Her Jewel costume from the comics appears briefly
in Season 1, Episode 5 _(Title: "AKA: The Sandwich Saved Me")_ of the
series, although she refuses to wear it and rejects Jewel as an alias
(saying it sounds more like a stripper's name). Ritter is set to
reprise her role in The Defenders, a crossover miniseries.

Film

In November 2013, Disney CEO Bob Iger stated that if 's Netflix TV
shows such as Jessica Jones become popular, "It's quite possible that
they could become feature films".

Video games

Jessica Jones appears in a series of  mobile and video games, such
as : War of Heroes,  Contest of Champions, and
: Future Fight. A teenage version of Jones appears in
 Avengers Academy, where she is voiced by Michelle Phan.
Jones also appears in  Heroes, where she is voiced by Mary
Elizabeth McGlynn. Jones is also a playable character in Lego
's Avengers, voiced by Tara Strong.

