JOLT (HELEN "HALLIE" TAKAHAMA) is a fictional character, a superheroine
appearing in American comic books published by . The
character has been depicted as a member of the Thunderbolts and Young
Allies.


Fictional character biography

HALLIE TAKAHAMA was born in Ojai, California before moving with her
parents to New York City at a young age. A super hero buff, she
memorized details about various superhuman battles.

On her 15th birthday, Sentinels controlled by Onslaught destroyed her
apartment, killing her parents and friends, and for weeks Hallie hid in
the ruins of the city with several children she rescued. When Hallie
went to seek help after Onslaught's defeat, she and all the children she
was protecting were kidnapped by the mercenary group the Rat Pack and
experimented on by the Rat Pack's employer, Arnim Zola. The other
children died or were horribly mutated, but Hallie became faster,
stronger, and gained the ability to throw bio-electric punches. She
escaped and attempted to reach the Fantastic Four.

Having been isolated between the destruction and the experiments, she
had not known that many superheroes, including the Fantastic Four and
most of the Avengers, had been whisked to a Pocket Universe created by
Franklin Richards, the son of Mister Fantastic and the Invisible Woman
of the Fantastic Four. The world at large presumed the heroes dead. When
Hallie reached Four Freedom Plaza, the Fantastic Four's old
headquarters, she encountered the Thunderbolts, a new super team who
were in fact the Masters of Evil posing as heroes.

She joined the team, and eventually convinced most of the
now-wavering former villains to become heroes. She went on the run
with the team. before Hawkeye joined. At first she resented Hawkeye
because he created civilian identities for Charcoal and Jolt and made
them return to school but she later admitted that she respected him for
having been where the Thunderbolts were and giving them that same chance
to redeem themselves that he had been given. Later she would be
"killed" by Scourge. Revived by Techno, she could now become a being
of pure electricity, but the damage from the time she spent "dead" left
her crippled in her human form, although after much therapy, she
fully recovered.

After being stranded on Counter-Earth with most of the Thunderbolts, she
chose to stay behind to help the devastated planet as one of the Young
Allies. However, Jolt made a brief return to Earth, in order to help
both the Thunderbolts and Avengers to stop the out-of-control Moonstone
(who had possessed two moonstones at the time and was losing control
when she absorbed the Liberator's energies within her).


Relationships with the other Thunderbolts

Hallie was particularly close to her teammates Atlas and Charcoal. Atlas
saw her as a surrogate sister who reminded him of his dead sister Lindy.
Charcoal took her "death" extremely hard. She was also originally close
with Meteorite who was a surrogate mother of sorts to Hallie before she
was revealed to be the super villain Moonstone and Jolt came to
understand how duplicitous Moonstone really was.

Baron Helmut Zemo hated Jolt from the very beginning realizing fairly
quickly that Moonstone was using Jolt's good influence to undermine his
control of the Thunderbolts.


Powers and abilities

Originally, Jolt possessed hyperkinetic agility and could move with
amazing speed and jump vast distances. Her hyperactive metabolism made
her body's natural bioelectric field exceptionally powerful, and she
could shock enemies with a touch. Moreover, Techno stated that she could
transform any kind of energy into physical strength and speed, and that
with an unlimited source of energy she would be able to use her powers
with no physical strain whatsoever.

After her "rebirth", Jolt could change from flesh-and-blood into living
electricity. In her energy form, she could fly and fire blasts of
electrical force. At first, she could only function in her electric
form, her human form was so injured that she could barely walk and talk.
She has now fully recovered, and her level of power has increased.


Other versions

MC2

While not appearing often, Jolt was member of the Avengers before the
current team was formed in A-Next #1.

 Adventures Iron Man

Jolt appeared in  Adventures: Iron Man #8, but not as a
superheroine. Instead, she was an assassin hired by Justin Hammer.
Hammer wanted her to take out both Iron Man and Tony Stark as Hammer was
being charged for trying to frame Iron Man and causing a lot of damage
to New York City (this took place in  Adventures: Iron Man #4,
where Iron Man fought the Spymaster) and Tony Stark was going to testify
against Hammer. Jolt appeared in her bio-electric form, but had the same
powers as the -616 Jolt.

 Zombies

Jolt was part of a team of zombified Thunderbolts in  Zombies:
Dead Days. She, along with the rest of the team, is seen trying to
infect Thor, but they are stopped by Nova, and ultimately killed.

