JOSIAH X is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by . He is the son of Isaiah Bradley, the black
Captain America, and the uncle of Elijah Bradley, the Patriot. The
character was created by Christopher Priest and Joe Bennett, and debuted
in the The Crew #1.


Publication history

As depicted in the series Truth: Red, White & Black, the World War II
Super Soldier program of 1942, operated by "Reinstein", used African
American test subjects in a beta phase. The clandestine experimentation
that empowered Josiah's father Isaiah Bradley held similarities with the
Tuskegee Experiments.

After a failed suicide mission to destroy the Super-Soldier efforts of
the Nazis, Isaiah was court-martialed and imprisoned at Leavenworth in
1943. In 1960, Bradley was pardoned by President Dwight D. Eisenhower,
and released.

While Isaiah was in prison, the government attempted to use his altered
DNA to create another Super-Soldier. After 39 attempts they had a single
success, which was Josiah. He was more or less Isaiah and Faith's
genetic son, but born to a surrogate mother. His surrogate mother
smuggled him out from under the government's watchful eye.


Fictional character biography

Josiah is a Muslim minister. He replaced his last name Bradley with the
letter “X”. He has had many names including "Justice", the one he used
as a hero. The "X" apparently symbolizes his allegiance to the Lost
Tribe of Shabazz. Josiah runs a Muslim Mission in the "Mog" (Little
Mogadishu) in Brooklyn, New York.

Josiah grew up alone in a Catholic orphanage outside of Boston. His
powers revealed themselves when he lashed out at one of the orphanage
nuns while in his early teens. Believing he had accidentally killed
Sister Irenia, he fled. Under the assumed name of Josiah Smith he
entered the U.S. Army.

[Josiah to the rescue
Art by Joe Bennett] Josiah served several tours in the Vietnam War,
becoming a seasoned and experienced veteran. His unit, made up of
primarily black soldiers, were nearly killed on a mission by an
inconsiderate and racist officer's order to bomb the area while they
were still on patrol. His assault on the heartless officer was rewarded
with a court martial. Josiah was sent back to the States to serve out
his sentence in Fort Leavenworth, a stateside military prison.

Blood tests at a secret research facility in Berkeley, California proved
he was the missing Super-Soldier baby. His surrogate mother was brought
in to confirm a genetic match, and she again helped him to escape. She
also told him the truth about his past and the real first names of his
genetic parents.

It was a long four years later before he could act on this knowledge. He
came across a list of African-American individuals abused by the
Super-Soldier project, and used it to find his parents' full names and
their location.

After meeting his real parents, Josiah left the US and traveled abroad
as a private military contractor and adventurer; he eventually ended up
on the continent of Africa. It was in Africa that Josiah discovered the
Islamic faith and decided to use it to find a purpose for his life.

The Crew

Josiah became involved with James Rhodes' clandestine "Crew" after they
were tricked into believing he was a criminal. After the usual superhero
fight, Josiah joined them in order to seek out those who had not only
framed him, but had also turned his neighborhood into a war zone.

When Iron Lad was trying to recruit the next generation of Avengers,
Josiah was one of the people he tried recruiting. Since Josiah was gone
at the time, his nephew Elijah Bradley went in his place, taking the
name PATRIOT.


Powers and abilities

Due to his unique genetic makeup, Josiah has aged very slowly. Although
he is well over fifty years, he appears to be a perpetual 25 years old.
Due to the gene manipulation process that eventually led to his creation
and birth, Josiah's genetic code was manipulated with great precision to
compensate for the side effects of unrefined Super Soldier serum.

Scientists were able to synthesize a more balanced replica of the peak
human abilities in his genes. Josiah is extremely strong (able to bench
press over 1100 pounds) and his body possesses phenomenal endurance.

Because of his many years on the run from the US government Josiah has
gained experience and training as both a soldier and mercenary. He also
has decades of experience with a variety of martial arts styles,
languages and weapons. He is a highly skilled combatant.

Equipment

-   Josiah carries the scarred battle shield belonging to his father and
    predecessor Isaiah, similar to one used by Steve Rogers before
    receiving his vibranium-steel shield. It is an unpainted concave
    triangular metal shield with the Double V for Victory design, useful
    for either defense or offense.
-   For protection he wears a loose chain mesh shirt over light padding.
    This mesh shirt is capable of blunting the impact of most small
    arms fire.

