JOYSTICK (JANICE OLIVIA YANIZESKI) is a fictional character appearing in
American comic books published by .


Fictional character biography

Virtually nothing is known of the past of Janice before she first
appeared as Joystick, including the origin and nature of her apparent
superhuman powers. When she was much younger, her father, a gambler,
taught her his philosophy to 'always have a card to play'. She then used
this philosophy to great advantage when she helped a mobster rob her
father to save her own life. Later, she was a student at the University
of Arizona, living a life she later considered to be a bore. After her
sophomore year, something happened to change her, apparently resulting
in her death; in her "new life," she became determined to live life on
the edge, and began taking extreme risks. She then disappeared for three
years before reappearing as Joystick.

Her occupations include former director of marketing at Chi-Huan
Associates and mercenary. She is a mutated human/technology user and has
been a member of the Crimson Cowl's Masters of Evil. Joystick was a
member of the Thunderbolts which at the time also included Atlas,
Blizzard, MACH-IV, Photon, Radioactive Man, Songbird, and Speed Demon.

Her various enemies include Batroc's Brigade (Batroc, Machete,
Maximillian Zaran), Green Goblin (Phil Urich), Justin Hammer, HYDRA,
Kaine, Shannon, Polestar, the Rhino, Spider-Man/Scarlet Spider (Ben
Reilly), El Toro Negro, and Tremolo.

During her stint on the Thunderbolts team, her powers have grown. She is
now fast enough to match the Speed Demon in hand-to-hand, and is
described as being 'the living embodiment of action'. After turning on
her teammates, she was subdued and was last seen in prison.

Joystick is also thought to be a bisexual. During Civil War, The
Thunderbolts took on a group of college kids that had stolen M.A.C.H.
IV's old suits of armor. After hearing Radioactive Man reference that
one of them was a woman, Joystick tries to open up the armor stating
"Buddha said it's a chick in here... Just wanted to see if she was
cute..."

At other times she has been flirtatious with her male teammates as well.


Powers and abilities

Joystick apparently possesses superhuman strength sufficient to press
roughly ten tons, speed, reflexes & reactions, agility, dexterity,
coordination, balance, and endurance roughly equivalent to that of
Spider-Man. The source of these powers remains unknown. She also wears
metal devices on her wrists, each of which generates a "baton" of
coherent energy, powered by strontium chips. These batons can be swung
or hurled with great concussive force, sufficient to damage concrete. In
addition, by striking the batons against one another, Joystick can
project a powerful concussive force beam at a target, and possesses
wires to hack into computers within her gauntlets. Her costume formerly
contained an explosive device which would be activated with a 2 minute
countdown by the controllers of the Great Game. The mechanism of the
devices is unknown, as is their exact composition.

Universal Wellspring

Joystick is a mutate like the Folding Circle as well as Silhouette,
Midnight's Fire, and Speed Demon. Her powers come from the UNIVERSAL
WELLSPRING.

