JUGGERNAUT (CAIN MARKO) is a fictional supervillain appearing in
American comic books published by . The character, who
first appeared in X-Men #12 (July 1965), was created by writer Stan
Lee and artist/co-writer Jack Kirby.

Since his debut during the Silver Age of Comic Books, the character has
appeared in over four decades of  publications, featuring
prominently in the X-Men titles and starring in two one-shot solo
publications. The character has also been associated with 
merchandise including clothing, toys, trading cards, animated television
series, video games, and the 2006 superhero feature film, X-Men: The
Last Stand, in which he was a member of Magneto's Brotherhood of
Mutants and was played by Vinnie Jones.

In 2008, Juggernaut was ranked 188th on Wizard's list of Top 200 Comic
Book Characters. In 2009, Juggernaut was ranked 19th on IGN's list of
Top 100 Comic Book Villains.


Publication history

The character debuted as an antagonist of the titular mutant superhero
team in X-Men #12–13 (July & September 1965). In the first of these
issues, he rampaged unseen throughout the X-Men's headquarters while the
team's leader, Professor X, related the character's origin in a series
of flashbacks.

After an initial defeat in the following issue, the Juggernaut returned
in X-Men #32–33 (May–June 1967), and returned again in X-Men #46
(July 1968), then fought the sorcerer Doctor Strange in Doctor Strange
#182 (September 1969), X-Men member the Beast in Amazing Adventures
#16 (January 1973), and the Hulk in The Incredible 'Hulk #172
(February 1974).

After the canceled X-Men returned in the mid-1970s, the Juggernaut
returned to fight a new iteration of the team in X-Men #101–103
(October 1975–February 1976). Storylines in Spider-Woman #37–38 (April
& June 1981) and The Amazing Spider-Man #229–230 (June–July 1982)
explored the Juggernaut's relationship with his ally Black Tom Cassidy.

The X-Men and Spider-Man proved to be regular foes for the character,
who appeared in Uncanny X-Men #183 (July 1984),  Team-up #150
(February 1985), and Uncanny X-Men #194 (June 1985). The Juggernaut
guest-starred in Secret Wars II #7 (January 1986), battled a new
generation of mutants in X-Men #217–218 (April & June 1987), appeared
in a flashback story in  Saga #21 (August 1987), and in a
humorous episode in Excalibur #3 (December 1988).

The Juggernaut also participated in the "Acts of Vengeance" storyline in
Thor #411–412 (December 1989) and returned in Thor #429 (February
1991). Other appearances included an encounter with his creator,
Cyttorak, in X-Men Unlimited #12 (September 1996) and starring in the
one-shot issue Juggernaut #1 (April 1997).

In 1994,  purchased Malibu Comics and began a series of crossovers
that saw  characters entering the Malibu Ultraverse. In 1995-1996,
Juggernaut lead a group of Ultras, who were named The All New Exiles.
The All New Exiles eventually met up with the X-Men in a special
Malibu/ collaboration, The All New Exiles vs X-Men, Issue #0,
dated October 1995.

The character appeared in Juggernaut: The Eighth Day #1 (November
1999) and Avengers Vol. 3, Nos. 23–25 (December 1999–February 2000)
with similarly powered avatars and attempted a reformation in Uncanny
X-Men # 410–413 (September–December 2002) and X-Men #162–164
(November 2004–January 2005). The Juggernaut confronted his stepbrother,
Charles Xavier—leader of the X-Men—in X-Men: Legacy #219 (February
2009), and fought the Hulk in Hulk #602 (November 2009).

He appeared as a regular character in Thunderbolts beginning with
issue #144, and remained on the team until issue #158, during the Fear
Itself limited series.

Writer Mike Conroy stated, "The characters who debuted during the early
years of 's mutant X-Men have been remarkably long-lived, and Cain
Marko is no exception".


Fictional character biography

1960s

Cain Marko is the son of Kurt Marko, who became Charles Xavier's
stepfather when he married Sharon Xavier after the death of her husband
Brian, for which Kurt was partially responsible. Kurt Marko starts to
favor Charles, and abuses his own son, Cain. Cain begins to resent
Charles and bullies him frequently. When Cain Marko and his step-brother
Charles serve in the US Army and are stationed in Korea, Marko finds a
hidden temple dedicated to the entity, Cyttorak. On entering, Marko
finds and holds a huge ruby, and reads the inscription on the stone
aloud: "Whosoever touches this gem shall be granted the power of the
Crimson Gem of Cyttorak! Henceforth, you who read these words, shall
become ... forevermore ... a human juggernaut!" The gem channels
Cyttorak's power into Marko. The transformation causes a cave-in, with
the character buried and presumably killed, not being heard from again
until a sudden assault on the X-Men's headquarters.

Xavier recounts the Juggernaut's origin to the X-Men, and after
shrugging off the mansion's defenses and brushing aside the X-Men, Marko
is clearly seen in the final panel as he confronts Xavier. The X-Men
regroup and attack, while Xavier summons Fantastic Four member the Human
Torch to aid the mutants, the Torch generating 'pulses' of flame that
essentially hypnotize the Juggernaut, distracting him long enough for
Angel to remove his helmet, making Marko susceptible to a telepathic
attack by Xavier.

The Juggernaut returns seeking revenge, and is delayed by three of the
X-Men while Cyclops and  Girl - aided by the astral form of mystic
Doctor Strange - find and use another jewel of Cyttorak, which banishes
the Juggernaut to the "Crimson Cosmos", the home dimension of
Cyttorak. When the Juggernaut reappears, the character has gained
mystical abilities and briefly battles the mystic Doctor Strange before
being banished to an alternate universe by the cosmic entity
Eternity.

1970s

Juggernaut reappeared on Earth through sheer force of will, although the
alien dimension caused him to age rapidly. The panicking villain battled
former X-Man the Beast before being drawn back to the same dimension.
An entity from his prison dimension reversed the aging process and
removed the mystical powers on the proviso that the villain never
return. The Juggernaut was accidentally pulled back to Earth at the
Hulkbuster base by an interdimensional device designed to banish the
Hulk. The Hulk aided the Juggernaut in escaping from the base, but
attacked him when the Juggernaut threatened a civilian. During the
battle, the Juggernaut's helmet was removed, and he was surprised and
defeated by Professor X, Cyclops, and  Girl.

The Juggernaut befriended Black Tom Cassidy, the cousin of X-Man
Banshee, and battled the first generation of new X-Men. When Tom fell
off the battlements of Cassidy Keep after a sword duel with Banshee,
Juggernaut jumped after him into the sea.

1980s

Black Tom used his niece Siryn - who possesses the same powers as her
father Banshee - to steal a shipment of the metal vibranium. The
Juggernaut battled Spider-Woman and the X-Men, and was the only one of
the criminal trio to escape capture. After freeing him from prison,
Black Tom decided that the psychic Madame Web could be useful in his
criminal pursuits. On arriving in New York City, Tom sent the Juggernaut
to capture Madame Web, with the villain destroying several city blocks
and ignoring Spider-Man's best efforts to stop him. The Juggernaut
almost killed Web by accident when he removed her from a life support
device, and decided to abandon her. A frustrated Spider-Man eventually
lured the Juggernaut into setting concrete, poured for the foundation of
an office high-rise, into which he sank without a trace; he took
over a month to dig his way out.

The Juggernaut, in civilian guise, had a bar fight with the X-Man
Colossus, who was at first unaware of the villain's true identity.
After another battle against Spider-Man and the X-Men, the
Juggernaut encountered the futuristic Sentinel Nimrod, who humiliated
and defeated him. The Juggernaut was one of the villains assembled
to battle the cosmic entity the Beyonder. The Juggernaut battled an
all-new generation of X-Men, appears in a flashback story with the
original X-Men, and had a humorous encounter with Captain
Britain.

The Juggernaut also participated in the Acts of Vengeance, battling
the Thunder God Thor and teen superteam the New Warriors.

1990s

The Juggernaut continues to feature prominently in  titles,
starring in an alternate universe adventure, battling Thor once
again and starring opposite other characters such as the mutant team
X-Force, Doctor Strange, the Hulk (allied at the time with
master villain the Red Skull and tricking and capturing the Hulk with
the same "civilian" guise used against Colossus), mercenary
Deadpool, the villain turned antihero Venom, and multiple
battles with the X-Men. The Juggernaut suffers a major setback
during the Onslaught storyline, being defeated and then humiliated by
the entity when imprisoned in the Gem of Cyttorak. The Juggernaut,
however, eventually manages to escape.

The Juggernaut also stars in a solo story and the "Eighth Day"
storyline, which introduces the entities the Exemplars. The Juggernaut
and seven other humans are revealed to have all been empowered and
corrupted by mystical entities, and as avatars enforce their will on
Earth. The Juggernaut resists the influence of Cyttorak and when
captured by other Exemplars is aided by the superhero team the Avengers.
Leader Captain America convinces the other Exemplars that they have been
manipulated by the mystical entities, who then decide to leave
Earth.

2000s

The Juggernaut, courtesy of a ruse engineered by Black Tom Cassidy,
eventually allies with and joins the X-Men, the plan being to destroy
the team from within. When Cassidy openly betrays the Juggernaut, Marko
decides to remain with the X-Men and attempt to change his ways. The
Juggernaut befriends a young mutant boy called Sammy Paré, who helps
Marko reform, despite setbacks such as a battle with the Canadian
superhero team Alpha Flight. However, when Paré discovers that Black
Tom Cassidy is preparing to attack the X-Men's headquarters, he is
killed. An enraged Juggernaut attacks Cassidy and his allies, with the
battle stranding all participants in the alternate dimension the
Mojoverse.

The Juggernaut reappears and joins the team New Excalibur for a brief
period. One storyline expands on the Juggernaut's origin, and reveals
that Marko is only the most recent of a series of incarnations of
Cyttorak's avatar, with each battling a challenger to the death for the
right to retain the entity's power. During the World War Hulk
storyline, the Juggernaut's power begins to wane, but by shunning his
stepbrother Xavier and returning to his villainous nature, he is able to
restore the link with Cyttorak, becoming powerful enough to hold his own
against the Hulk. Despite an attempt by Xavier to reform Marko, he
concedes that redemption is impossible.

2010s

While training his son Skaar, Bruce Banner bombs Juggernaut's house to
initiate a confrontation between Skaar and the Juggernaut. Skaar
manages to win his first fight by throwing the Juggernaut into open
space, proving to his father that he has the ability to use cunning and
strategy in combat, and not simply physical strength.

During The Gauntlet storyline, Spider-Man finds the Juggernaut
unconscious. The government comes along and transports the Juggernaut to
a secure facility. Spider-Man sneaks into the facility to ask the
Juggernaut who did this to him. Then, a new Captain Universe breaks into
the room and claims he's there to slay the Juggernaut. Spider-Man
learns that Captain Universe is a man named William Nguyen who wants
revenge on Juggernaut for ruining his life during his previous fight
with Spider-Man over Madame Web. When he insists on trying to kill
Juggernaut instead of fixing the tectonic plates beneath New York City,
the Uni-Power leaves Nguyen and enters the Juggernaut. The Juggernaut,
as Captain Universe, repairs the damage to the tectonic plates that was
caused by him during the same rampage that ruined Nguyen's life.

Following the Siege storyline, Juggernaut is shown at The Raft at the
start of the Heroic Age storyline - weakened, since Cyttorak
apparently took his temporary empowerment by the Uni-Power as an
affront, and withheld part of his "blessing". Following Luke Cage's
appointment as leader of the Thunderbolts, Cain is brought up for
suggestion for the program. While Cage is initially against him joining,
Professor X telepathically contacts Luke and asks him to reconsider,
believing he has a chance at redemption despite what he previously told
Cain. Juggernaut agrees to do whatever Luke says, partly because he is
now suffused with nanomachines which can affect him in his weakened
state.

During the Fear Itself storyline, one of the seven Hammers of the
Worthy that was launched to Earth by Serpent: God of Fear lands near
Juggernaut. Juggernaut is able to lift it and becomes Kuurth: Breaker of
Stone. His transformation was enough to level the Raft causing a mass
prison break. Kuurth makes his way to California and fights the
X-Men. Magik, Colossus and Shadowcat go to Cyttorak's dimension and
inform it that the Serpent has control over Juggernaut. Magik strikes a
deal with Cyttorak, who chooses her to become the new host of the
Juggernaut's powers; however, the entity ends up transferring the
Juggernaut's powers to Colossus instead. Colossus was able to turn the
tide on Kuurth before Kuurth is teleported away by the Serpent.
During the last battle between the Avengers and the Worthy, Kuurth was
defeated by Wolverine using his Uru armor, and lost his hammer when the
Serpent was killed by Thor.

Cain Marko, apparently having been incarcerated after the events of
'Fear Itself', having lost the power of both Kuurth and Cytorakk (but
retaining his enormous physique) is released into military custody.
Subsequently, he is taken to the borders of the country of Sharzhad just
as the Thunderbolts return from their tumultuous tumble through time,
and Satana aids Man-Thing in opening a gateway to the Crimson Cosmos (or
possibly an alternate universe where Cain Marko had died while still the
Juggernaut). Pushing his hand through, Marko is re-empowered, becoming
the Juggernaut once more - just in time to thunder forth and smash
through the otherwise unbreakable force field surrounding the country.
This allowed the Thunderbolts to resolve an otherwise deadly threat to
the planet - as had been orchestrated by the Ghost, who had sent the
request for Marko's release back through time. He soon lost these
borrowed powers again, and went to live in solitude in the desert,
still, it seems, super-strong, although not mystically-empowered.
Meanwhile, Magik purged the Juggernaut powers from Colossus with her
Soulsword.

After a time, Cytorakk causes the Crimson Gem to reappear in the ancient
temple and emit a call for suitable candidates to become a new
Juggernaut. Cain Marko, finally having found peace—even tending a
vegetable garden—senses the call and, having armed himself, coerces the
Vanisher to take him to the Gem's location. He comes into conflict with
a team of X-Men (having been alerted by Colossus, who also perceived the
call), as well as seekers of the Juggernaut's power such as Man-Killer.
As Marko and Colossus struggle with one another, only to realize that
they have the same goal—to destroy the Crimson Gem and prevent another
avatar being empowered—Ahmet Adbol, the former Living Monolith, claims
the Gem and is transformed into an amalgam of Living Monolith and
Juggernaut. As the colossal new Juggernaut wreaks havoc in the
countryside, Colossus invokes Cytorakk, and the god responds to his
former exemplar. Arguing that the Monolith-Juggernaut will eventually
fail Cytorakk, as all his former avatars have done, Colossus challenges
him to try something new: empower him enough to kill Cytorakk himself.
Apparently daunted by this prospect, the god withdraws his power from
Ahmet Abdol and instead empowers another avatar, to a greater extent
than any Juggernaut has ever been. However, the new avatar is not
Colossus, but once more Cain Marko. Marko is full of rage, which he
focuses on the X-Men and specifically Cyclops, for killing Professor
Xavier. Now more powerful than ever and stripped of even his last
weaknesses, he feels that Charles Xavier was the only one who ever truly
believed in Cain Marko. Colossus manages to sidestep the Juggernaut's
rage, causing him to sink into a deep pool, but in the end, it only
serves to slow him down.


Powers and abilities

When Cain Marko found the Gem of the mystical entity Cyttorak, he was
empowered with magical energies and transformed into an immortal avatar
for the entity in question. As the Juggernaut, Marko possesses
superhuman strength, being capable of shattering mountains, lifting
and using buildings as weapons, and extreme durability.

Juggernaut is able to generate a mystical force field that grants him
additional invulnerability to any physical attack when it is at its
maximum. Even when the force field was temporarily absorbed by
Thor's hammer, the Juggernaut's natural durability still proved to be
great enough to withstand blows from Thor. The Juggernaut is
described as physically unstoppable once in motion, does not tire
from physical activity, and is able to survive without food, water, or
oxygen. The Juggernaut heals quickly, as when he was stabbed through the
eyes by Shatterstar, the wounds were healed almost immediately.

It is possible for an opponent with sufficient physical or mystical
strength of their own to turn the Juggernaut's unstoppable movement
against him, by redirecting his motion so that he gets stranded in a
position in which he has no escape; both the Hulk and his son, Skaar,
have managed this feat physically, and Thor has managed this feat
mystically with Mjolnir. The only character to have stopped
Juggernaut while he was in motion as an act of pure physical strength
was the Hulk while he was War, a horseman of Apocalypse and empowered
with Celestial technology.

When he has gained complete access to the Gem's powers during the Trion
saga, it increased his power a thousandfold. Trion Juggernaut was
capable of altering the size of matter, growing in size, tracking,
levitation, absorbing and projecting energy, increasing his own
strength, and creating portals through space-time.

The character is vulnerable to mental attacks, a weakness that has been
exploited via the removal of his helmet, which normally protects him
from such. The Juggernaut has circumvented this weakness on occasion
by wearing a metal skullcap inside his main helmet. If Juggernaut
loses his helmet, he can magically recreate it from available raw
materials (as long as he possesses the full power of the gem).

After Cytorakk's re-empowering of Cain Marko, his strength and
durability were raised to higher levels than ever before, and his
vulnerability to mental attacks was negated.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

In the Age of Apocalypse universe, Cain is a monk who works as a
protector of Avalon. He guides Mystique and Nightcrawler to meet
Destiny, but subsequently suffers an aneurysm when his desire not to
hurt others conflicts with his lust for violence during an attack on
Avalon.

 Zombies

In the  Zombies universe, a zombified Juggernaut is seen in a
horde of zombified villains. He is later killed by Wolverine when
Wolverine shoves his fist in Juggernaut's mouth and then proceeds to use
his newly obtained cosmic powers to decapitate him.

MC2

In the futuristic MC2 universe, the title J2 stars the son of the
Juggernaut, Zane Yama. Yama, who inherited his father's powers and goes
by the name J2, joins the future Avengers, and is eventually reunited
with his father Cain Marko, who was trapped in an alternate
dimension.

What If?

In a reality where Xavier acquired the Crimson Gem rather than Cain,
Cain joined forces with Magneto and Xavier's disillusioned students, the
X-Men. Believing that Xavier's more ruthless methods contradicted his
alleged dream of peaceful co-existence and using a telepathy-blocking
headband to prevent Xavier from realizing what he was up to, they were
able to expel the Juggernaut into space. Cain leaves with Magneto after
Xavier's Juggernaut is dispatched.

In a reality where Cain successfully defeated the X-Men in their first
battle, the Sentinels were thus released in mass numbers without the
X-Men to oppose them, resulting in Earth being destroyed in their
subsequent nuclear assault. Although Cain eventually managed to destroy
the Sentinels through sheer persistence, he was left in a
post-apocalyptic wasteland with all other human beings having been
killed by the radiation that had been released by the Sentinels'
attacks.

Ultimate 

["Ultimate Juggernaut", from Ultimate X-Men Annual #1 (August 2005).
Art by Tom Raney.] The Ultimate  imprint title Ultimate X-Men
features an alternate universe version of the Juggernaut, who was
originally part of the Weapon X program and has ties to Rogue, having
grown up in the same trailer park. At some point in his life he was
incarcerated by Weapon X and forced to act as a living weapon under the
direction of Col. John Wraith. Juggernaut was part of the strike force
that took out the X-Men, forcing them into Weapon X as well. Cain and
Rogue shared a cell while both were forced to serve Weapon X. When The
Brotherhood of Mutant Supremacy removed the security implants that were
prohibiting the mutants from leaving their cells, Juggernaut fought for
his freedom. After the entire ordeal, Cain was offered a place with both
Xavier's X-Men and The Brotherhood. Cain chose The Brotherhood, but
later left the team for parts unknown. Cain was captured by
S.H.I.E.L.D. However, en route to a prison designed to contain the Hulk,
there was an accident and Cain broke free. Retrieving his helmet, he
began to track down Rogue, who was a thief along with Gambit, stealing
the Cyttorak Gem from the Fenris twins. He also revealed that he had a
crush on Rogue. Juggernaut was bonded with the gem when Gambit shoved it
into his helmet.

During the Ultimatum storyline, Juggernaut helps Rogue in defending
the X-Mansion from anti-mutant soldiers led by William Stryker. He is
shot in the eye by a poisonous dart fired by one of the anti-mutant
soldiers and dies in Rogue's arms.

 Apes

In the  Apes universe, there is a primate version of Juggernaut
called JUGGERMONK who is a member of the Ape-Vengers.


In other media

Television

-   Juggernaut appeared as the villain in the Spider-Man and His
    Amazing Friends episode "A Firestar is Born", voiced by William H.
    Marshall with stock grunts by Bob Holt from the 1982 Incredible Hulk
    series.
-   Juggernaut appeared in the 1989 pilot Pryde of the X-Men, voiced
    by Ron Gans. He appears as a member of Magneto's Brotherhood
    of Mutants.
-   The character fully appeared in three episodes of the 1990s X-Men
    animated series: "The Unstoppable Juggernaut," "Phoenix Saga Part 3:
    Cry of the Banshee" (with a teaser cameo at the end of the previous
    episode), and "Juggernaut Returns", voiced by Rick Bennett. He
    attempted to get revenge on Xavier, his half brother in this
    continuity, in all three episodes.
-   Juggernaut appeared in X-Men: Evolution, voiced by Paul
    Dobson. In this show, Juggernaut is Xavier's half-brother
    (rather than step-brother) and his powers are a result of a dormant
    mutant ability. This ability was awakened by the gem of Cyttorak.
    Mystique released him to get Xavier's computer Cerebero and give it
    to her. Juggernaut betrayed her and smashed through the
    X-Men's mansion. The X-Men and The Brotherhood of Evil Mutants team
    up and defeat Juggernaut by taking off his helmet and allow
    Professor X to knock him out with mental attacks. In the end,
    Juggernaut is re-imprisoned and the X-Men hope the Brotherhood will
    come to their side eventually. The Juggernaut is released at the
    beginning of the show's third season in an attempt to further
    provoke human-mutant conflict, but the X-Men prove that mutants are
    not all the enemy when they defeat the Juggernaut's attempt to
    destroy a dam.
-   Juggernaut is featured in Wolverine and the X-Men, voiced by Fred
    Tatasciore. In the episode "Battle Lines," he is sent by Magneto to
    break Tildie Soames out of an Mutant Response Division facility
    since he can break the box that she is held in. Juggernaut places a
    device on her, but a monster manifested from her nightmares sends
    him flying. In the episode "Breakdown," the X-Men fight Juggernaut
    when a vision of Jean Grey distracts Cyclops from blasting off
    Juggernaut's helmet. When the fight was over, Juggernaut escaped
    from them.
-   Juggernaut appears in The Super Hero Squad Show episode "Enter
    Dormammu", voiced by Tom Kenny. He and Sabretooth fight the
    Super Hero Squad over an Infinity fractal and end up defeated at the
    great wall near Villainville.
-   Juggernaut appears in the Black Panther TV series, voiced by Peter
    Lurie. He is among the villains that help Klaw in his invasion
    of Wakanda.
-   The Juggernaut appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man episode
    "Awesome", voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson. In this version, it
    is implied that his powers are not instilled in his own person, but
    are derived from his suit (or at least his helmet). In their initial
    meeting, Juggernaut becomes a serious hazard for Spider-Man's
    desperate last-minute efforts to complete a school science
    fair project. Despite his claims of being unstoppable, he is finally
    held up and his costume consumed by the Awesome Android, rendering
    him powerless and helpless against a knockout punch from Spider-Man.
    After Awesome Android is defeated, Juggernaut is arrested by
    the S.H.I.E.L.D. Agents. In the episode "Swarm," Juggernaut escapes
    from prison and Spider-Man places a Spider-Tracer on his helmet.
    Iron Man shows up to help Spider-Man fight Juggernaut. Juggernaut
    gets away as Spider-Man hoped to get the Spider-Tracer to work
    for him. Spider-Man later faces Juggernaut again and again places
    his Spider-Tracer, which has been modified with Stark
    Industries tech. Yet something goes wrong; Juggernaut gets
    surrounded by the replicating Spider-Tracers and crashes into a
    cement truck, where he gets stuck in cement. In the episode "The
    Next Iron Spider", Juggernaut is seen robbing a bank until he is
    defeated by Squirrel Girl and her squirrel army. But he is only
    knocked out temporarily and attempts to escape, only for Spider-Man
    to defeat and capture him.

Film

[Vinnie Jones as the Juggernaut in X-Men: The Last Stand]

-   In X-Men: The Last Stand, Juggernaut (played by Vinnie Jones)
    serves as one of Magneto's Brotherhood Alliance army. In this
    version, he is a mutant with no explicit connection to Charles
    Xavier or the Crimson Gem of Cyttorak. His mutation granted him the
    inability to be halted once he starts running, and superhuman
    strength sufficient to fight Wolverine to a standstill. During the
    battle on Alcatraz Island, Magneto orders him to destroy the cure,
    but is foiled by Kitty Pryde and knocks himself out when he attempts
    to run through a wall while in the presence of the power-negating
    Leech. Vinnie Jones has said he would like to reprise Juggernaut in
    a spin-off, as he felt there was too little time in X-Men: The Last
    Stand to imbue the character with depth.
-   According to Bryan Singer, a young Juggernaut was originally written
    to appear in X-Men: Days of Future Past, but was replaced by
    Quicksilver. Josh Helman revealed to IGN that he was originally cast
    as Marko, but was cast as William Stryker instead.

Video games

-   Juggernaut is the stage 3 boss in LJN's 1988 NES game, The Uncanny
    X-Men.
-   Juggernaut is a boss in Data East's 1991 arcade game, Captain
    America and the Avengers.
-   Juggernaut is the stage 5 boss in the X-Men arcade game by
    Konami.
-   Juggernaut was one of two bosses, along with Apocalypse, for
    Wolverine's stage in the 1992 game Spider-Man/X-Men: Arcade's
    Revenge.
-   Juggernaut appears in X-Men for the Sega Genesis.
-   Juggernaut appears as a Danger Room simulation in the X-Men: Mutant
    Apocalypse Super NES game.
-   Juggernaut appears as a character in several of Capcom's
    -based fighting games, beginning with X-Men: Children of the
    Atom as an unplayable character and as the penultimate boss, but
    selectable in  Super Heroes, and in the  vs. Capcom
    crossover series in X-Men vs. Street Fighter, in  vs.
    Capcom: Clash of Super Heroes as a striker, and in  vs.
    Capcom 2: New Age of Heroes.
-   Juggernaut appears as a boss in X-Men: Mutant Academy 2.
-   Juggernaut appears as playable character in X-Men: Next Dimension
    voiced by Fred Tatasciore.
-   Juggernaut appeared as a boss in X2: Wolverine's Revenge voiced by
    Fred Tatasciore. He was shown as an inmate of the Void.
-   Juggernaut appeared as an enemy in X-Men Legends voiced by John
    DiMaggio. A flashback level featured the X-Men fighting Juggernaut
    to keep him from reaching Professor X. A later mission had the
    X-Men fighting Juggernaut when it came to keeping him from
    abducting Forge. After Juggernaut is defeated and placed in a
    special cell, Juggernaut stated that he doesn't know who hired him
    to target Forge.
-   John DiMaggio returns as Juggernaut, now upgraded to playable
    status, in X-Men Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse. He is shown as
    one of the latest members of the Brotherhood of Mutants.
-   Juggernaut appears in the Game Boy Advance version of X-Men: The
    Official Game as a boss character.
-   Juggernaut is a playable character in the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3
    versions of : Ultimate Alliance 2 with John DiMaggio
    reprising his role. Juggernaut's modern costume is his default and
    his Ultimate  counterpart appears as an unlockable alternate
    costume.
-   Juggernaut appears as a villain in the game Spider-Man: Shattered
    Dimensions voiced by Matt Willig. The Earth-616 Spider-Man
    comes across him while looking for the Tablet of Order and
    Chaos fragment. While trying to reclaim the fragment from Juggernaut
    (who had unknowingly picked it up with his boot), Spider-Man had to
    fight with the Wild Pack who are targeting Juggernaut
    and Spider-Man. After losing his helmet and being dropped through an
    Oscorp building, Juggernaut finally discovers the fragment on his
    person and uses its power to strengthen himself for a final battle
    with Spider-Man. Although it increases his strength to even greater
    levels than before, the fragment's power clashes with Juggernaut's
    Crimson Gem, weakening his defenses enough for Spider-Man to
    defeat him. Juggernaut is later seen in the credits, having been
    apprehended by the Wild Pack.
-   Juggernaut appears as a villain and boss of the mission "All for
    Jugger-naut!" in the online PC game,  Super Hero Squad
    Online.
-   Juggernaut appears in the X-Men: Destiny video game, voiced by
    Fred Tatasciore. He appears as a member of the Brotherhood
    of Mutants.
-   Juggernaut is a boss in the Facebook game : Avengers
    Alliance. He later appeared as an unlockable hero when the player
    collects all 8 of his comic covers from the Unstoppable Lockboxes.
-   Juggernaut appears as both a boss and playable character in the MMO
    game  Heroes, voiced by Fred Tatasciore.
-   Juggernaut appears in Lego  Super Heroes, voiced by Andrew
    Kishino. He is seen as a member of the Brotherhood of Mutants.
    Juggernaut accompanied Magneto in his attack on the X-Mansion to get
    to the Tesseract. As the players progress through the level,
    Juggernaut is seen rampaging throughout the X-Mansion, fighting
    Colossus and Gambit. When it comes to the X-Jet Hangar, the players
    ultimately fight Juggernaut, managing to remove his helmet and
    defeat him.

Books

-   In the X-Men/Star Trek crossover novel Planet X, Wolverine
    programs the holodeck of the Enterprise-E to simulate Juggernaut
    (along with Sabretooth, Unus the Untouchable, and the Blob) for him
    and Worf to fight.
-   Juggernaut is the focus of the novel X-Men: The Jewels of Cyttorak
    (ISBN 1-57297-329-3), where an archeological dig reveals a fragment
    of an emerald from the same lost city of Cyttorak.
-   Juggernaut is featured in the third novel of the X-Men: Mutant
    Empire trilogy, fighting alongside the X-Men to stop Magneto from
    conquering Manhattan.

Internet parody

On February 14, 2006, the parody troupe My Way Entertainment released
"The Juggernaut Bitch!!", an overdub of part of the X-Men animated TV
series episode "Phoenix Saga Part 3: Cry of the Banshee". "The
Juggernaut Bitch!!" uses a variety of slang, profanity, and non
sequiturs through ad-libbing. The parody includes the often-repeated
line, "Don't you know who the fuck I am? I’m the Juggernaut, bitch!" At
first, the clip was made available on the duo's college website but when
YouTube became popular so did the parody.

The clip became a popular Internet meme, so popular that the line was
included in X-Men: The Last Stand during Juggernaut's fight with Kitty
Pryde. In June 2006, My Way released a sequel "J2: Juggment Day,"
using footage from "Juggernaut Returns". On June 10, 2007, My Way
released a second sequel entitled "J3: Shadow of the Colossi" on their
website using footage from "The Unstoppable Juggernaut" and "Pryde of
the X-Men". The video game Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 has an
achievement called "I'm the Juggernaut..."

