JULIE POWER (also known as LIGHTSPEED) is a fictional character
appearing in American comic books published by . She first
appeared in Power Pack #1 and was created by Louise Simonson and June
Brigman.


Publication history

Julie Power featured in all 62 issues of Power Pack published by
 between 1984 and 1991. Between issues 1 and 25 of the
original Power Pack series, Julie starred as the alter-ego of the
superhero Lightspeed, but her superhero codename changed to Molecula
when she gained her brother Jack's powers during the course of a
storyline. She continued as Molecula between issues 25—52 until she
regained her original powers and superhero name (Lightspeed), which she
retained until Power Pack's cancellation with issue #62. Julie later
appeared in both the 1992 Power Pack Holiday Special and Power Pack
Vol.2 miniseries 'Peer Pressure,' which was published in 2000, at some
point changing her superhero name to Starstreak in the intervening
years. During this publishing hiatus, her only appearances were brief
cameos in New Warriors.

Outside the Power Pack series of comics, she has since appeared in
Runaways Vol. 2, in the short-lived Runaways spin-off title Loners,
and presumably as a background character when that team later appeared
in the miniseries War of Kings: Darkhawk (though she is not identified
specifically at any point during this series). Julie appeared as a
regular character in Avengers Academy from issue #20 (Dec 2011)
through its final issue #39 (Jan 2013). Julie has also appeared in
several non-canon alternate continuity titles such as Exiles, 
Zombies vs Army of Darkness and various Power Pack miniseries aimed at
younger readers.


Fictional character biography

Julie Power was born in Richmond, Virginia to Dr. James Power and
Margaret Power. She was a founding member of the superhero team Power
Pack. The second oldest of the four Power siblings, she was 10 years old
when she was given her powers by Aelfyre Whitemane, a dying Kymellian
noble. She continued to operate with Power Pack through their entire
history, later relocating to Los Angeles to live on her own after
quitting the team in unrevealed circumstances.

Julie was the only Power family member who had a birthday happen within
the comic series, aging from 10 to 11 years old. In the later 2000
mini-series (which makes no references to 'current'  continuity
and thus cannot be objectively placed in canon) she is 14, in Runaways
vol. 2 #1 she is nebulously identified as being an "ex-teenager", but in
the later Loners #4, Julie identifies herself as being 17 years old.
In the letter column of Avengers Academy #31, Julie is identified as
being about 19 years old.

Power Pack

After the events of Power Pack #1-#5 which detailed the team's origin,
the Power family moved from Virginia to New York City. There, Power Pack
encountered other superheroes such as Spider-Man, and Cloak and
Dagger. They also met Franklin Richards, and encountered the New
Mutants. Julie's powers were later siphoned into the Snark Jakal;
when returned, her powers were exchanged with those of her brother Jack,
and she became MOLECULA. Eventually, she regained her original powers
and resumed her original codename. Power Pack then encountered
Galactus and Nova.

Julie was perhaps the most "normal" of the Power siblings. When she was
not in "superhero mode" Julie could be quite shy and quiet; in several
instances, she was bothered by bullies at school. Her solo storylines
often involved regular "kid issues" such as babysitting and cheating on
tests. Julie was also a voracious reader, and was frequently seen
reading, carrying or quoting books, even graduating elementary school
with honors in English. She frequently stepped into a maternal role
with her siblings, sewing and washing the team's costumes, caring for
Katie and Franklin Richards and attempting to restore peace during
conflicts.

In battles, Julie possessed quick reflexes and was a strong fighter. In
the Pack's initial conflict with Prince Jakal, Julie was able to
singlehandedly bring down the Snark's ship. She was also the only
member of Power Pack in the original series to be directly responsible
for the death of another character—Pestilence, in the Fall of the
Mutants, fell to her death when Julie struck her with the "Julie
Hammer" battle technique (though Pestilence might have survived had she
not resisted Katie's attempt to pull her to safety).

Excelsior/Loners

Julie's personality detailed above changed during unrevealed
circumstances and she was reintroduced during the Runaways: True
Believers story-arc as a flighty, naive, wannabe actress who lacked
worldly experience despite her many adventures with Power Pack. It
is initially revealed in Runaways that because of her time with Power
Pack, Julie decided to retire from super-heroics because she had missed
out on having a normal childhood, though this later changes to her
retiring from super-heroics to protect the privacy of her family and
focus on developing a private life of her own away from prying eyes, and
so she moved to Los Angeles to seek fame as an actress. This also later
changes to her retiring from super-heroics to develop an identity of her
own away from her family or other superheroes, prompting her to join
the superhero group Excelsior. However, she (as well as the others
within the group) agree to go on a mission offered by Rick Jones (though
they don't know his identity at the time) to return the Runaways to the
foster care from which they had escaped at the conclusion of their first
series in exchange for one million dollars and a refitted Avengers
Quinjet. Though this initial mission for the fledgling Excelsior team
was a failure, they spend the next few months continuing to pursue the
Runaways regardless, before discontinuing their pursuit and deciding
never to use their powers ever again in unrevealed circumstances that
occurred sometime before the beginning of the Loners miniseries, but
which could be related to the events of Civil War.

During a misunderstanding between Hollow (the mutant formerly known as
Penance) and Ricochet, Julie appears without warning or explanation and
is stabbed through the shoulders or gut (art and dialogue on the first
page of issue 4 indicate different and contradictory injuries) by
Hollow's claws. She claims that her 'alien metabolism' allows her to
recover quickly from the wound, and she - apparently jokingly - suggests
this is also why she is so skinny, though it is not explained how
her healing ability works now that she is separated from her siblings,
as physical contact between them is required to heal grievous
wounds, while the ability works passively if they are in regular
contact, and they become prone to debilitating sicknesses and viral
infections if kept apart from each other for any reason.

Julie reveals to the group that her flighty personality and seemingly
low intelligence is really a facade that she adopted when she moved to
California, that she has merely been pretending to be unintelligent for
the preceding two years in order to fit in with the rest of her
team-mates, and also that she has not registered with local
authorities as an active superhuman. Despite admitting her flighty
persona is an affectation, Julie continues to act exactly as before for
the remaining issues of Loners, and in the final issue's closing montage
is seen playing absentmindedly with her hair much as she does in issue
#4 when suggesting she is merely playing a part for the benefit of
others.

Throughout Loners, Julie suggests in her narrative that she hides a
secret from the rest of her team, and in issue #5 reveals she is not
registered as a superhero with the government. In issue #6, however,
Phil Urich alludes that Julie "of all people" should respect that he is
still keeping something (details of his and Mickey Musashi's dealings
with the Loners' enemies) from the group: later, Mickey Musashi asks
Julie if "there's anything more you want to open up about?", but Julie
declines, stating she's "still confused."

Avengers Academy

Julie was seen (among the other young heroes) to be arriving on the new
campus for the Avengers Academy. She is attending at the Academy as
both a student and a teacher's assistant, under Quicksilver's
tutelage. When fellow Academy member Striker confides to her that he
is gay, she confirms that she is bisexual. During an earlier
encounter with the Runaways, Julie and Karolina Dean express a close
personal interest in each other in the middle of combat before they are
rudely interrupted by Molly Hayes. Following a later joint mission
of the Avengers Academy and the Runaways, Julie and Karolina agree to go
on a date, and eventually they end up being romantically
involved.


Powers, abilities and equipment

Julie's original power (and that most associated with the character) was
unaided flight by means of rapid forward propulsion that left a highly
visible tri-colored band of light in her wake. Julie could only remain
aloft while in motion, however, as she discovered when she first used
her powers, only managing to stop when she accidentally collided with
the bulkhead of a Snark starship and broke her arm. Julie never flew
at the speed of light as her codename suggested and her top speed
remains unknown, but it was supposed by her brother Alex on one occasion
that she had broken the sound barrier.

Julie gained the density powers previously held by her brother Jack for
a time and operated under the name Molecula. She expanded upon her
new powers by learning to create force fields and bubbles, the latter of
which could be employed to cushion herself or others from falls. Julie
also learned to make herself taller and larger without transforming into
a cloud - though she still retained the same mass and would become tired
when increasing her height and stature for long periods of time.
[Julie develops advanced teleportation abilities]

Julie eventually regained her original acceleration powers and
continued as a member of Power Pack under her original codename,
Lightspeed. She did not develop any new permutations of - or
applications for - this ability, however, until after she changed her
codename once again, this time to Starstreak. Just as she expanded
her mass-controlling abilities as Molecula, Julie eventually refined her
original abilities so she could teleport over great distances without
any visible sign of exhaustion.

In unrevealed circumstances at some point between the Power Pack 2000
miniseries and her reappearances in both the second Runaways series and
the Loners miniseries, after returning to her original codename
(Lightspeed) once again; Julie learned to refine her powers so she could
now hover in the air without having to accelerate to stay aloft, and
could also now physically stand upon her own rainbow trail, use it as an
impromptu cushion against falls, or even as a hammock.

During their battle with Ultron, Turbo orders Julie "Shields up and
try to draw its fire", shortly before Ultron shoots Julie out of the air
using the same energy blasts with which he had just murdered the mother
of Victor Mancha, an event Julie survives with no visible
ill-effects.

Along with her siblings, Julie possesses Kymellian healing powers. Julie
is the first Power sibling to use this ability, albeit unconsciously,
when her broken arm mysteriously heals quickly during the Pack's initial
conflict with the Snarks. Later in the series she heals herself
automatically, after switching to cloud form and back, when her legs are
seriously injured during a battle with the mutant team Trash. When her
brother Jack calls attention to it during the battle, Julie answered,
"yeah, that happens sometimes."

With her siblings, Julie owns a Kymellian smartship, Friday. The ship
acts as an unofficial team advisor and accompanied the Pack on several
missions. As with other members of Power Pack, it is not been seen
during Julie's appearances in Loners - though she does mention Friday in
passing during her first mission with (what was then known as) Excelsior
on their search for the Runaways.

Julie wears a costume of unstable molecules created by Friday. The
costume exists in an extra-dimensional space known as "Elsewhere" until
summoned by voice command (the wearer would say the words "costume
on!"). The costume also houses a communicator which is used to
communicate with Friday, and is later modified to include a mask. As
with all the team's costumes, the pockets of the costume can be used as
an access point to Elsewhere itself, where the cartoon-like creatures
known simply as "The Tailors" reside in a colorful wonderland of talking
dinosaurs, enchanted forests, mad monarchs, surreal architecture and
malleable physical laws.


Other versions

Avengers and Power Pack Assembled

In Avengers and Power Pack Assembled, an older Julie is encountered by
Power Pack when they are banished to an alternate future by Kang the
Conqueror. She is a 23-year-old woman who bears a notable
resemblance to her mother and possesses her father's scientific
brilliance in addition to her Kymellian powers. It remains unclear how
she and her family could exist in this timeline, since its creation
hinges on their absence.

House of M

In the "House of M" storyline, Julie, along with her brother Alex, was
seen as a member of a super-powered gang that called themselves the
Wolfpack.

Exiles: Days of Then and Now

In Exiles: Days of Then and Now, Julie is a member of Quentin Quire's
unnamed team of superheroes, the last survivors against the Annihilation
Wave that was led by a banished Hulk.

Millennial Visions

In the "Power Pack: Starting Over" story (in actuality not a story but a
one-page pitch for a theoretical series) within 's 2001
Millennial Visions one-shot comic, Julie is a 30-year-old researcher
for SETI. She is depicted as being the most stable of the four Power
siblings, who are estranged from each other, and reunites them to fight
the Snarks again.

 Zombies

In  Zombies vs Army of Darkness, Julie is seen alongside her
Power Pack cohorts as zombies who come into conflict with Nextwave, whom
(we are informed by a caption box in the style of the Nextwave comic)
Power Pack then graphically murder "in the most humiliating and
degrading ways imaginable" off-panel several seconds later.


In other media

-   Julie as Lightspeed will be a playable character in Lego 's
    Avengers.

