KARMA (XI'AN COY MANH) is a fictional superheroine appearing in American
comic books published by . The character was created by
Chris Claremont and Frank Miller.

Karma is a mutant endowed with the ability to seize control of another's
mind, though she has sometimes been depicted with other more extensive
psionic abilities. The origin of the character relates to the Vietnam
War, as she and her family were among the boat people fleeing the
country shortly after the advent of Communism and in the wake of
violence. Her Vietnamese origin contributes to two of her main
traits—her Catholicism and her mastery of the French language, both of
which stem from France's strong historical influence in Vietnam. Karma,
in fact, speaks English with a French accent rather than a Vietnamese
one.

Karma was one of the five founding members of the New Mutants, along
with Cannonball, Mirage, Sunspot and Wolfsbane. Being several years
older than the others, and the legal guardian of her siblings from a
young age, she was the most mature member of the team. Karma is one of
the first major lesbian characters in a mainstream comic book.


Publication history

Karma first appears in  Team-Up #100 (1980). She joins the New
Mutants as a founding member in  Graphic Novel #4 (1982) and
appears as a regular cast member in New Mutants from issues #1–6
(1983) and issues #29–54 (1985–87), in which she leaves the team to
search for her kidnapped siblings. Her search brings her to Madripoor,
and she guest stars in Wolverine volume 2 issues #4–8 (1989) and
#27–30 (1990).

In 1994, she appears in the Child's Play crossover between X-Force and
The New Warriors, and features in three limited series: Beast
#1–3 (1997), New Mutants: Truth or Death #1–3 (1997–98) and Mekanix
(2002–03). In New Mutants volume 2, she returns to the X-Mansion as a
faculty member and continues to appear irregularly as a supporting
character when that title was relaunched as New X-Men.

After M-Day, Karma retains her powers, and joins the main X-Men team
when they relocate to Utopia. She is assigned to the New Mutants team
of the X-Men and features in New Mutants vol. 3 issues #1–28, after
which she leaves Utopia for the Jean Grey School as part of the Schism.
Karma then serves with Wolverine's X-Men and is featured in Astonishing
X-Men volume 3, starting with issue #49.


Fictional character biography

Introduction

Xi'an (pronounced and nicknamed "Shan") Coy Manh was born in the central
highlands of Vietnam. Xi'an's origins are rooted in tragedy. Her father
was a colonel in the South Vietnamese army who was forced to bring his
wife and four children on missions. When Xi'an's twin brother, Tran Coy
Manh, was attacked by a Viet Cong soldier, Xi'an's power of mind
possession emerged to protect him. Tran soon exhibited the identical
power, although he relished using it cruelly. While Tran was rescued
from the throes of war by their crimelord uncle, General Nguyen Ngoc
Coy, Xi'an's father was shot and killed during the fall of Saigon. Xi'an
escaped on a cramped boat with hundreds of others, including her mother
and her younger brother and sister, Leong and Nga. The boat was boarded
by Thai pirates on the way to the United States; Xi'an and her mother
were raped by the pirates and her mother died shortly thereafter.

Arriving in New York City, a program to help Vietnamese immigrants run
by the Catholic priest Father Michael Bowen (Dagger's uncle) helped
Xi'an find work and an apartment. However, General Coy insisted she use
her powers in his service, as Tran was already doing, and kidnapped
Leong and Nga when she refused. Possessing Spider-Man, she attempted to
use him to reclaim the children from a party her uncle was holding. The
Fantastic Four intervened. Tran, not realizing Xi'an was in control of
Spider-Man, forced her out of Spider-Man's mind in possessing him long
enough for the Thing to knock him out. With technical aid from Professor
X, the Fantastic Four and Spider-Man located Xi'an. After an initial
misunderstanding, they agreed to help her reclaim the children, but Tran
possessed the Fantastic Four and set them against Spider-Man. Spider-Man
was outmatched by Tran's ability to use the Fantastic Four as a single
cohesive force due to his greater experience with his powers. Xi'an
finally lashed out, absorbing her brother completely and taking the name
Karma. Her powers doubled after absorbing her brother.

New Mutants

Reed Richards refers Karma to Professor X, and she becomes his first
recruit for his new team of mutant teenagers, the New Mutants. Karma had
been working a full-time job to support herself and her siblings, and so
agrees to work as Xavier's secretary to help him run the school in
return for a generous salary.

During an attack by the Sentinels, the other New Mutants begin
implicitly following Karma as their leader. During a fight with Viper
and the Silver Samurai, the mutant psychic entity Amahl Farouk takes
Karma as a host body. She disappears and the rest of the team fears her
to be dead. Possessed by Farouk, she becomes a crime boss and runs a
gladiatorial arena. She becomes grossly obese while possessed, as Farouk
was a large eater in life and had continued his voracity when using
Karma's body. When two of the New Mutants (Sunspot and Magma) are forced
to participate in the high-stakes gladiatorial competition, she comes
into conflict with her old teammates.

The New Mutants pursue her and ultimately drive Farouk to flee from
Karma's body, and she defeats him in psychic combat. The New Mutants
and Storm take a vacation on a small Grecian island. There they are
abducted by the Enchantress. Magik attempts to teleport everyone away,
but her teleport disc collides with the barrier around the Enchantress's
castle, and they are tossed through space and time. Karma ends up in a
desert wasteland and, still despondent at her obesity, she decides to
lay down and die. However, the Norns intervene and place a young child
near her, compelling Karma to survive in order to help the child out of
the desert. Karma and the child live in the desert for months, using her
powers to stun the wildlife for food, and scavenging weapons and shelter
from travelers who have perished in the wasteland. By the time she
reaches the end of the desert and reunites with the other New Mutants,
she has shed her excess weight and her hair had grown to waist-length.
When Loki returns the New Mutants and X-Men to Earth, although he undoes
most of their transformations — such as Moonstar having become a
Valkyrie and thus inherited a winged steed — he ensures that Karma
retains her new slimmer physique. After an encounter with — and
temporary death at the hands of — the Beyonder, she and her fellow New
Mutants are briefly transferred to the Massachusetts Academy and join
the Hellions.

Father Bowen, Karma's confessor, cared for Leong and Nga during Karma's
absence, but she resumes caring for the youths upon her return to the
New Mutants, living in a small apartment on Manhattan's Lower East Side.
During the Mutant Massacre, Leong and Nga fail to turn up at home after
leaving school. The Xavier School’s headmaster, Magneto, is unable
to locate the missing children, even with the resources of the Hellfire
Club at his disposal. Believing her uncle has a better chance of finding
them, Karma leaves the New Mutants to return to General Coy's service in
exchange for his help.

Searching for Leong and Nga

In Madripoor, she works to help her uncle establish himself as one of
the nation's two major crime lords. After the X-Man Wolverine appeals to
her conscience, she begins covertly acting against Coy when his actions
threaten innocent lives. General Coy strings Karma along for several
months with promises of finding the children, but after he and some of
his associates orchestrate the massacre of an entire village, she breaks
her ties with him.

Karma continues her search independently, and learns the children were
abducted by Shinobi Shaw and sold to Viper and Spiral, intent on sending
the children through the “Body Shoppe”. With the aid of Cannonball and
Beast, Karma finally locates and frees Leong and Nga, while learning
that her brother's essence is still alive, though dormant, within her.

Karma reunites with the original New Mutants when they meet their past
selves traveling to the present. Karma evidences expanded telepathic
powers, specifically removing the memories of the older New Mutants from
the minds of the younger ones. Karma later meets many New Mutants
friends, in the form of X-Force, at a desert rave, where she has dyed
hair, body piercings, and revealing clothing, a surprising difference to
the image held by many of her former teammates.

She moves to Chicago with Leong and Nga and takes a job as a librarian
for the University of Chicago while attending classes. There, she
runs into Kitty Pryde and assists her in her mission against the
anti-mutant hate group, Purity. Around this time she publicly comes out
as a lesbian and confesses her love to Kitty. According to Xi'an, she
had tried to speak to Kitty about her feelings, but desisted when she
felt that Kitty could not reciprocate her feelings.

Teacher at Xavier's

Months afterwards, Danielle Moonstar, another ex-New Mutant, drops by
the University of Chicago while trying to recruit Prodigy to the renamed
Xavier Institute. Karma decides to return to Xavier's, where she
serves as the librarian and French teacher. She is specifically chosen
as a mentor by the younger student Anole, and later is mentor to all
students less than fifteen years of age (thus too young to be assigned
to squads). She returns to a more modest appearance and attire to better
reflect her new position.

When Rahne Sinclair leaves the Xavier Institute due to a romance with a
younger student, her position as advisor of the Paragons squad is left
to Karma. Upon the (temporary) death of Northstar, Karma also becomes
the advisor to his squad, the Alpha Squadron. Magma eventually takes
over duties as the advisor of the Paragons, yet that still leaves Karma
as the librarian, French teacher, and advisor to the Lower School and
Alpha Squadron.

Karma retains her powers after M-Day. The school's population is
drastically reduced and the squad system is abolished. She continues
to reside at the Xavier Institute for Higher Learning, though she is not
part of an X-Men team.

She is present when Apocalypse returns and tries to stop some of the 198
from accepting his offer to join him.

Manifest Destiny

Karma moves to Utopia along with the X-Men and trains with Emma Frost in
the use of her powers and the control of her emotions. She serves
with the X-Men on several missions, including acting as bait to lure out
the Hellfire Cult and opposing the Sisterhood in its attempt restore
Psylocke to her original body.

Reforming the New Mutants

Karma accompanies Mirage to a small Colorado town to investigate reports
of a dangerous young mutant. After they turn up missing, Cannonball
obtains permission from Cyclops to track them down, teaming up with old
New Mutants members Magma, Sunspot and Magik, who reappeared at the
X-Men's base after teleporting off into the future after the events of
"X-Infernus." Magik informs Cannonball and Sunspot that Karma and Mirage
are in danger which would result in their deaths. As it turns out,
Karma's consciousness is trapped inside Legion's mind, and she is
ultimately rescued by Magik with the aid of her Soulsword.

Due to their success in reining in the dangerous Legion, Karma and the
other former New Mutants on the mission are sanctioned as an X-Men squad
by Cyclops.

Utopia

Karma is seen during the riots in San Francisco with Armor, Match,
Angel, and Bling trying to keep calm. She tells Nekra and Frenzy to
behave when Ms.  blasts the duo, taking them out.

In the aftermath of Utopia, Xi'an goes to see Kavita Rao with Magik
where they inform her of what went on in Legion's mind. When Kavita
mistakes Marci for one of Legion's personalities, Xi'an corrects her and
reveals that Marci was a real person but when she exited his mind,
Legion revealed Marci does not have a body to return to and explains how
his powers work. She then reveals that one of Legion's personalities
killed her after she bought Legion water and played together when he got
back from the Age of Apocalypse. Feeling angry, Illyana offers her
soulsword to Xi'an who kills the alternate personality. However Xi'an
lies to Kavita about what happened as does Magik, both claiming Magik
killed him.

Second Coming

Karma is sent with her teammates to engage The Right and Cameron Hodge
at his facility. During the battle, she attempts to take psionic control
of Hodge, but he proves immune to her powers and impales her through the
leg with his metal projectiles. Hodge is defeated, but as a result
of her injuries, Karma's left leg is amputated above the knee. She
then gets a new prosthetic leg from Madison Jeffries.

Schism/Regenesis

Following the events of the Age of X, Karma leaves the New Mutants squad
to focus on rehabilitating Face. Like many other mutants, Karma
leaves Utopia for Westchester after the Schism, where she joins a team
of X-Men under Wolverine.

Astonishing X-Men

Karma joins an ad hoc team of X-Men who find themselves under attack by
the Marauders. The Marauders are controlled by Susan Hatchi, a
successful weapons developer who wished to test out new nanotechnology
that her company had developed.

After seizing control of Karma, it is revealed that Hatchi also had
ulterior personal reasons for targeting the mutant. Born Da'o Coy Manh,
she is the illegitimate half-sister of Karma. Da'o's mother had sought
out their father for protection and for Da'o to be recognized as his
daughter. Instead, he shot and killed her mother. He then abandons Da'o
to work at a sweatshop.

Da'o eventually manifested low-level telepathic powers, changed her name
and began building her weapons development company. She later discovered
that their father had used his influence to smuggle his legitimate
family to the US, which made her resentment grow. This was further
compounded when her powers were lost during M-Day.

In a later confrontation with the X-Men, Hatchi uses her nanotechnology
to seize control of the team and orders them to takeover Madripoor or
she will use her technology on New York and kill the population. She
wants to not only demonstrate the effectiveness of her weapon but to
draw out their father from hiding by publicly using Karma as bait. While
she is able to locate her father in Madripoor, the X-Men are able to
counteract the technology. Karma uses her own mutant abilities to forge
a psychic link with her half-sister and show her the struggles she's had
in her own life, despite the fact that their father acknowledged her.
While the two sisters reach reconciliation, their father takes advantage
of their engagement and shoots Hatchi. He is arrested by the police for
her murder. After Hatchi's death, Karma inherits her company as the only
eligible relative of age and effectively becomes a billionaire.

Karma later appears as a member of the Utopians alongside Elixir,
Madison Jeffries, Masque, Random, and Tabitha Smith.


Powers and abilities

Karma is a mutant with the ability to take possession of the minds of
other people or animals. She projects a psionic energy surge that
overwhelms the consciousness of another; this renders the victim
unconscious while placing her own mind in command. It allows her to
alter the victim's perceptions and memories, command people to fall
asleep or divulge information, and operate their bodies as if they were
an extension of her own.

Formerly when Karma first took possession of someone, she could only
move her subject's body awkwardly until she acclimated herself to her
new host. If she remained in possession of a host for too long she would
begin to think and act as her host would, and eventually her own
personality would become subordinate to one identical to the host's.
Although Karma can possess multiple subjects simultaneously, her control
over her subjects is fragmented as she shifts her attention from one to
another.

Karma had also begun developing other telepathic abilities that were
either latent or triggered by her possession by the Shadow King. By
possessing others remotely, she can mentally "see" through their eyes.
She is also able to use her power to disrupt other psi-signatures,
protecting her from all manner of psychic assault.

Karma is also a capable combatant with medieval weapons (particularly
swords), due to the extended period of time she spent in Asgard. She is
also familiar with first aid and firearms owing to her time in Vietnam.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

In the Age of Apocalypse reality, Karma is Angel’s assistant, helping
him manage his nightclub Heaven, and keeping a neutral stance in the
civil war between Apocalypse’s loyal followers, openly resistant
mutants, and the human population. Part of Karma’s job is to use her
mental powers to gather information from their guests, and also to make
sure none would remember anything suspicious they might have
witnessed. Eventually, Karma is kidnapped by Apocalypse’s troops to
be interrogated on matters regarding the X-Men. Karma keeps quiet as
long as she can, but when the Shadow King is released on her, she gives
away the desired information. She is then discarded outside Apocalypse's
stronghold.

Learning of his assistant’s fate, Angel searches for her. He is blinded
by rage at the time, and when an Infinite guard calls out to him, he
shoots the guard with his gun. Too late, though, he recognizes the
guard's voice as Karma's. As he pulls her dying body from the suit of
armor, she apologizes for having let him down.

Age of X

In the Age of X reality, Karma is a member of Danielle Moonstar's
Cadre who serve as hunters for Fortress X. In this universe, she sports
a mechanical leg.

Days of Future Past

In the Days of Future Tense continuity, inspired by the Days of
Future Past, Karma is part of Pete Wisdom’s resistance force in Great
Britain in the year 2013. She only answers to her codename, and has
apparently suffered terrible losses. Trying to cope with her situation,
Karma displays a dark sense of humor and has refined her powers to the
point where she can perceive things through a person's eyes without
really possessing him or her.

House of M

In the House of M reality, Karma is a teacher at the New Mutant
Leadership Institute. She is officially noted with S.H.I.E.L.D. for her
pro-human sentiments, an unpopular opinion with the mutant ruling
class. Karma and Cypher discover Laurie Collins and Sean Garrison
are really working for S.H.I.E.L.D. as double agents and Tag takes him
down before he tries to kill them.

Ultimate 

In the Ultimate  continuity, XI'AN COY MAHN is seen as a much
darker character, working as one of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Black Ops agents,
codename: Karma. She is called in by Nick Fury to find out whether or
not the President was being mind-controlled by Charles Xavier, based on
his recent pro-mutant stand. Upon the request of the President, she is
added as the final member of the government sponsored New Mutants to
observe the group. She is later instrumental in gaining evidence against
a high-ranking government official who is the head of the anti-mutant
conspiracy, arresting both high-ranking officials involved in attacks on
the 'New Mutants' on the Capitol steps. Whenever she uses her powers,
her eyes glow a dark pink color.

X-Men: The End

Karma is seen fighting alongside the X-Men when Warskrulls invade the
mansion.


In other media

Television

-   Karma could be seen in the X-Men animated series of the mid-1990s
    as one of Apocalypse's captive psychics in the final episode of the
    multi-part storyline, Beyond Good and Evil, wearing her
    green costume.

