KAROLINA DEAN ( ), also briefly known as LUCY IN THE SKY, or
L.S.D., is a fictional character, a superhero appearing in American
comic books published by . The character first appeared in
the series Runaways. She was created by author Brian K. Vaughan &
artist Adrian Alphona, and debuted in Runaways #1 (April 2003) with
most of the other main characters. Like every member of the original
Runaways, she is the daughter of evil super-powered criminals; while
searching through her parents' home, Karolina inadvertently discovers
that her parents were Majesdanian invaders. Majesdanians are an alien
race that absorbs solar energy and reradiates it in the form of the
colors of the rainbow. She is often called "Kar" or "K" for short, and
is known for her free spirit and kind nature. She is a vegan and peace
keeper, and once mentioned as being a protester.

Karolina is the group's only gay character. She is the only
extraterrestrial in the group, except for a period of time when her
Skrull fiancee, Xavin, becomes part of the team. Runaways creator
Brian K. Vaughan played a significant role in the character's subsequent
development as well as artist/writer Adrian Alphona, both of whom spent
most of the first volume of the series hinting that Karolina was
romantically attracted to fellow member Nico Minoru.


Fictional character biography

The Pride

Karolina is the daughter of renowned Hollywood actors Frank and Leslie
Dean and is the only older Runaway who didn't witness their parents
murder an innocent girl as a sacrifice. Karolina denies the entire
situation primarily, but finally believes the group soon after
discovering she is an alien. The kids decide to go for a massive
ransack, and leave home; before leaving for good, they decide to put
their parents to justice by collecting certain evidence from their
homes. When arriving at the Dean mansion, they find Karolina's parent's
last will and testament; Karolina is given a piece of paper with the
circular "no symbol" covering the Caduceus. Alex convinces her to remove
her medic alert bracelet because it is emblazoned with the symbol.
Karolina angrily concedes, thinking that she only wears the bracelet
because she's allergic to penicillin, and her skin immediately glows
with a fluid, rainbow-like light. Remembering something they heard
from the Pride's sacrifice, the group assumes Karolina is an alien and
the bracelet is an anchor to hide her powers; Leslie Dean later confirms
these theories for Karolina. After escaping their parents, Karolina
takes the name Lucy in the Sky, a reference to the song of the same
name.

Personality

Early in the series, Karolina constantly struggled with her alien
heritage, feeling that she is a "freak" amongst the group, the only one
who needs to actively hide her true form. Another insecurity was of
her speculated homosexuality. Her insecurities even prompt Karolina to
offer her life to the vampire, Topher, as Karolina expresses little
desire to live. After her first near-death experience at the hands of
Alex Wilder, Karolina overcomes her death wish and helps the Runaways
escape the rampaging Gibborim as the Pride fight their former
benefactors. After the Pride's defeat, Karolina is sent to live with
foster parents, but she organizes a secret reunion for the Runaways,
after which they run away again, this time to the Pride's old lair
beneath the La Brea Tar Pits. Karolina is portrayed as having a
wide, free spirit, notably when she discovers she can fly. But she is
also shown as being quite sensitive, often crying at her pain and
misfortune, as well as the pain and misfortune of others.

As a fugitive

[Karolina's twisted dream.] In the early issues of Runaways, volume 2,
Karolina fights under the command of de facto leader Nico. Karolina
expresses more comfort with being an extraterrestrial and makes
strong hints at being a lesbian, especially as she stops to compliment
Julie Power on her beauty during a battle with Excelsior over the
custody of Victor Mancha and later even agrees to go on a date with
her following a joint Avengers Academy/Runaways mission (and would
eventually become romantically involved). Soon after Victor joins
the team, Karolina "comes out" to Nico with an attempted kiss, which
Nico rejects outright. Karolina's "outcast" insecurities resurface
when her Skrull fiancee Xavin comes to Earth in search for her.
Unbeknownst to her, Karolina's parents arranged Xavin's and Karolina's
marriage as part of a peaceweaving effort between the Skrull and
Majesdanian (her species) homeworlds. Karolina leaves with Xavin,
much to Nico's distress.

While on her home planet Majesdane, Karolina learns to control the shift
between her Majesdanian and humanoid forms and how to further control
her solar powers. However, the wedding does not go as planned and
the couple flees towards Earth as their homeworlds reignite the old war.
They crash land near the Hostel and return in time to assist in the
rescue of Molly Hayes. Karolina has a dream of her parents tearing
her apart. Karolina remains with the team and Xavin becomes accepted as
a member after Gertrude Yorkes' death, and they both join the Runaways
in defeating the Gibborim for good. When the Runaways are
accidentally displaced in 1907, Karolina meets Klara Prast, and
convinces everyone to accept her on the team.

Deportation

In S.W.O.R.D._ #2, Karolina is one of the aliens kidnapped by Henry
Gyrich in his "aliens go home" policy. He uses pheromones to target
Karolina's Majesdanian physiology and leads her away from the Runaways
and kidnaps her without difficulty. She was eventually freed along
with the other aliens. She assists in saving the Earth from a fleet of
murder-happy aliens. Abigail Brand, now the sole head of S.W.O.R.D.,
returns all the aliens to Earth, reassuring them they will have their
freedom and they are each owed one favor.

Recent activities

When Nico and Chase go missing, Karolina and Molly go to Hank Pym for
help.

Karolina later appears in the pages of Avengers Undercover where she
and Molly visit Nico and Chase in the S.H.I.E.L.D. detention center
after Hazmat killed Arcade.


Relationships with other Runaways

[Karolina in her true Majesdanian form. Art by Adrian Alphona]
Karolina gets along well with the other Runaways, and the only time she
had ever got into an argument with them was after Nico questions her
about Xavin's gender. She has an older-sister type relationship with
Molly, but a caring relationship with both Chase and Victor, whom she
had both comforted after they lost loved ones. It was subtly hinted
throughout Runaways volume 1 that Karolina had a crush on Nico, but
Karolina did not make her feelings explicitly known until volume 2, #7
when she attempted to kiss Nico. When Nico refused, Karolina was
distressed, having just gotten over the isolation of being the team's
sole alien and now was outed as the team's only lesbian. Merely an
hour later, Karolina was taken away by Xavin to be wed, and left her
medic alert bracelet with Nico as a token of remembrance. When Karolina
returned to Earth, she accidentally confessed to Xavin (whom she thought
to be Nico at the time) that she was still in love with Nico, saying
that she cares for Nico "more than she will ever know." Karolina remains
staunch in her devotion to Xavin, and thus her feelings for and
attraction to Nico occasionally put a strain on their friendship.

Karolina met Xavin after suffering rejection from Nico, her crush for
many months. She initially rejected Xavin when he told her that
Karolina was promised to be his bride, but after hearing that the
marriage would be part of a peace treaty between her world and Xavin's,
Karolina felt more inclined to accept the proposal. She accepted
fully when Xavin expressed no concern of changing physical appearance
from male to female to please her. Xavin once took the form of Nico in
order to please Karolina, but Karolina rejected her as Nico and
reassured Xavin that she loves her as she is. Later on, during an
argument, Xavin subconsciously reverted to female human form, which both
surprised and pleased Karolina, who had earlier expressed some lingering
doubts about Xavin's true gender.


Powers and abilities

Like all Majesdanians, Karolina's natural form is luminous, iridescent,
and visually fluid, often depicted with waves of rainbow-like light
floating off her body, (Chase described her as "a burning painting")
though body structure is essentially humanoid. Originally, Karolina
required a custom made medic alert bracelet constructed of an
unspecified alien metal to revert to humanoid form. However, after
spending many months on Majesdane, Karolina learned to control the
change and can make it at will. In her Majesdanian form, Karolina is
able to manipulate solar energy absorbed by her body to generate large
concussive blasts, fine laser-like beams and force fields capable of
stopping cave-ins, gunfire and explosions. Like her parents, Karolina
learned the ability to bind people, binding a New Pride in a colorful
sphere. Karolina's Majesdanian form also grants her the ability to fly.
During an encounter with the vampire Topher, it is revealed that
Karolina's blood also harbors solar energy-based properties, because
drinking her blood caused Topher to combust.

The drawback to Karolina's powers are that they have a finite charge. If
she is in her Majesdanian form too long or exerts her powers too much,
her glow will start to fade and revert her to human form until she uses
the sun's rays to recharge. The only time she entirely lost her powers
was when the Runaways battled the Gibborim to prevent Chase from
sacrificing himself. Leslie Dean stated early in the series that
Majesdanians' abilities do not affect one another.


Conceptual changes

In Brian K. Vaughan's original pitch for the series, Karolina Dean was
originally called Leslie. This name would eventually be given to the
character's mother. Her parents were originally real estate agents, as
opposed to famous actors. It was Molly's parents that were meant to
be famous, but were redesigned as doctors instead.

Karolina's Majesdanian form has been colored in two distinct styles.
Brian Reber, the first colorist of Runaways, colored Karolina with
many different colors of the visible spectrum from panel to panel.
Christina Strain, the second colorist for Runaways, colors Karolina in
lighter tones, using primarily blue, yellow, and pink with a
glitter-like effect.


Other versions

House of M

Karolina Dean, is mentioned as being a "go-to" girl for the
Wolfpack. However, this is a ploy to capture the Wolfpack. It is
mentioned, however, that the Pride rule Southern California.

 Zombies Halloween

A zombie Karolina Dean is attacking Kitty Pryde and her son Peter in
 Zombies Halloween. She is stopped by Mephisto.


In other media

-   Karolina Dean appears as a playable character in Playdom's video
    game : Avengers Alliance.
-   Karolina Dean is a collectible miniature playing piece in Heroclix,
    Wizkids game of Super Hero table top combat.

