DR. KATHERINE "KATE" WAYNESBORO is a fictional comic book character
appearing in books published by , primarily as a supporting
character to the Hulk.


Publication history

Created by writer Bill Mantlo and artist Sal Buscema, she first appeared
in The Incredible Hulk #287 (Sept. 1983) as Bruce Banner's research
assistant.


Fictional character biography

Kate Waynesboro is hired as a laboratory assistant by Bruce Banner
during a period of time when Banner's rational persona controls the
Hulk, and eventually enters into a romantic relationship with Banner.
However, during a battle with the Abomination, Banner (as the Hulk)
discovers that Waynesboro is also an agent of the paramilitary
organization S.H.I.E.L.D., sent as a "minder" for Banner to be sure that
he didn't lose control again, calling her actions, including the pair's
romance, into question.

The Abomination then kidnaps Waynesboro and offers her as a hostage to a
faction of AIM that had recently taken over the base of MODOK. Seeking
to create a pawn powerful enough to fight MODOK, the AIM faction
subjects Waynesboro to the same process that gave the mutated villain
his powers, dubbing her "Ms. MODOK" as she emerges from the
transformation chamber. Ms. MODOK quickly refuses her would-be masters'
command to attack MODOK, and he states his intention to take her as a
consort, to which she assents. When the Hulk objects, MODOK not only
assaults him, but also atomizes the Abomination's body on a whim as a
demonstration of power. Aghast at MODOK's casual murder, Ms. MODOK turns
against him; before fleeing, he forces her back into the transformation
chamber. To Bruce Banner's surprise, a normal Waynesboro emerges from
the chamber, apparently none the worse for her experience.

Waynesboro quits S.H.I.E.L.D. to continue her personal and professional
relationships with Banner, but after his return from the so-called
"Secret Wars", it is apparent that Banner is losing control of the Hulk
just as S.H.I.E.L.D. feared. Waynesboro returns to S.H.I.E.L.D. to help
capture the Hulk, but ultimately could not bear to watch Banner's
failing struggle to regain dominance, removing herself from the conflict
between the Hulk and S.H.I.E.L.D.

Waynseboro is later seen in the company of S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Gabe Jones
just prior to the events of World War Hulk.

Kate is later seen receiving information regarding the Warbound members
by their former teammate "King Miek" to find their biggest weaknesses.
Miek secretly chems with Kate and finds out her true intentions,
including her relationship with the Hulk and tells her to be careful but
doesn't tell on her. Three weeks later she is sent to aid fellow
S.H.I.E.L.D. agents in capturing the Warbound but ends up being
kidnapped by the Warbound to help one of their members who is wounded.
She is caught in the middle of a plot by The Leader to irradiate the
world with gamma rays and create a new gamma world. Assisting the
Warbound to help stop this threat, her goal was mainly because an entire
town has already been exposed to the radiation and have begun mutating.
Almost dying, due to a mix of radiation poisoning and her wounds, she
gains the old-power from Hiroim The Oldstrong after he perishes in
battle. She is later seen in a meeting with Norman Osborn to get
Warbound pardoned for their crimes during World War Hulk for their
work aiding people who were infected with Gamma radiation along only to
find out that he already did, being "a big believer in the concept of
redemption". She has yet to master completely controlling the Old Strong
Power.

Kate has been captured by H.A.M.M.E.R. in order to extract her Old power
for their own use and benefit. However, Banner and Skaar assault the
facility she is being held in and rescue her.


Powers and abilities

Following the death of Hiroim, Kate Waynesboro had inherited his
Oldstrong power.

