KESTREL (JOHN WRAITH) is a character in the  fictional
universe.


Fictional character biography

John Wraith was a member of Team X and later a test subject of the
Weapon X Program. He was part of Team X along with Wolverine,
Sabretooth, Maverick, Mastodon and Silver Fox. John was a powerful
teleporter, capable of getting the team out of sticky situations after
their job was finished. He had a penchant for explosives, arming himself
with shaped charges, explosives that were built to direct the force of
their blast in specific directions based on how they are deployed. Like
the other members of Team X, he was given an artificial age suppressant
so he was likely much older than he looked. His time as a secret agent
and a member of the Weapon X program left John somewhat paranoid. His
house was a veritable death trap, as was the yard around it; John
trusted no one.

He made a habit of keeping his skill a secret from his compatriots as
well as his foes, using it only sparingly, and if no one was looking
directly at him — unless it was absolutely vital. The only time when his
fellow Team-X members found out about his powers was when they went up
against Omega Red. John was backup on that mission that Wolverine,
Maverick, and Sabretooth ran in Germany to collect a carbonadium
synthesizer, and when that trio burst out of the target compound with
Red in pursuit, John stalled him with his gun until the others got away.
Unfazed, Omega went to wrap John up and tear him to pieces, but John
teleported to safety at the last second, with only Wolverine and Omega
Red seeing this. There was also a certain animosity between him and
Sabretooth. He was about as violent as his fellows from the Weapon X
program, but a lot more merciful and didn't enjoy killing innocents
while on a mission, which put him at odds with people like Sabretooth.
Sabretooth once languished for quite a time in John's basement with
several shaped charges strapped to his chest. Unless he had a really
good reason to, Sabretooth wouldn't lift a finger to help John.

Years later, John had tracked Wolverine and the rest of his old
teammates down because it seemed that there was a problem with the age
suppression factors given to them by Weapon X, as one of their number,
Mastodon, had suddenly aged quite rapidly and been reduced into a pile
of ooze. With their help, John discovered a list of termination
candidates from the Weapon X project. They recognized themselves on the
list plus a man named Aldo Ferro, who they knew was a big time mafia
chief, Il Topo Siciliano. They tracked Ferro to his secluded island
where they discovered Maverick guarding him. Maverick soon changed sides
when Ferro, aka Psi-Borg, revealed that he was the one who used his
psi-powers to speed the false memory implantation of the Weapon X
subjects. After this fiasco, John hung out with Wolverine for a month or
two, but then vanished.

Wraith was later re-recruited into Weapon X by the "Director" and his
mission was to recruit Maverick as well. However, Maverick fought back
and Wraith was shot and then had his neck broken by Sabretooth, who was
planning on betraying the Program and couldn't trust Wraith. He was left
for dead, but managed to survive.

John Wraith turns up alive and later became a preacher and was visited
by Wolverine who confided in Wraith during soul-searching instigated by
his being somewhat skeptical of his new start in life. However a demon
later possessed Wolverine's body (referred to as Hellverine) and lured
Wraith into a trap by killing one of his parishioners. Whilst exiting
the chapel and locking the parishioners inside so as to ensure they
would not come to any more harm, Wraith armed himself with an assault
rifle and set off to stop Logan's rampage only to be caught in one of
his own traps, where he came face to face with Hellverine who managed to
cast a spell of sorts on him, causing an assortment of deadly creatures
(including scorpions and snakes) to crawl all over his body; seemingly
killing him. Hellverine then directed its attention to Wraith's church
(which was still locked with the parishioners inside) and used its
demonic powers to set the building ablaze. Wraith emerged from nowhere
and tried in vain to stop the demon, but was critically wounded by its
claws. Helpless, Wraith could only watch as the parishioners were burned
alive as he lay dying, as he was now depowered and could no longer
teleport.


Powers and abilities

Wraith had the psionic ability to phase-jump; meaning he could seemingly
disappear at will from any point in space and appear at another, with
what would appear to be an exceptionally high range. He could move about
space at will, appearing and disappearing in a fashion that left no
flashy burst of light or sound and he could even take others with him.
He also had a life-extending serum in his blood, due to his involvement
in the Weapon X program. He liked using "shaped charges," bombs whose
blasts are precisely controlled.


Other versions

Ultimate 

The Ultimate  version of the character is a Caucasian male.
Colonel John Wraith was a mutant-hating commando who was in charge of
the world's first mutant concentration camp. He was sanctioned by
S.H.I.E.L.D. to head the barbaric Weapon X Program, which specialised in
capturing mutants and forcing them to carry out covert missions for the
US government. The program was co-headed by a Dr. Abraham Cornelius. He
and his men (all who have anti-mutant sentiments as well) managed to
capture and subject Canadian para-trooper James "Lucky Jim" Howlett to
experiments which wiped his memories clean and bonded his skeleton with
adamantium. They christened Howlett Weapon X and gave the fake name
Logan. Wraith and his men enjoyed tormenting Logan by teasing with bits
and pieces of lost memories and also caging and shooting Logan day and
night since Logan could not die due to his own mutant healing factor.
This conditioned Logan to become the perfect killing machine, or so they
thought.

During the Gulf War, they were transporting Logan in the desert,
preparing for deployment, but the transport team was ambushed and Logan
was accidentally set loose. Stumbling across a younger Nick Fury taken
by surprise by the same ambush, Logan rescued and brought Fury back to
base camp. Colonel Wraith, surprised that Logan retained his humanity by
not killing Fury, ordered his men to shoot and cage Logan once again. He
told Fury not to worry about Logan since he was nothing more than a
living weapon. A couple of years later, Fury returned the favor by
helping Logan escape from the Weapon X facility.

Wraith sent Sabretooth, another one of his mutant agents, after Logan
but came back empty-handed. Wraith then began capturing other mutants to
take Logan's place, mutants including Nightcrawler, Rogue and Cain
Marko. When he received news that Logan headed back to America (as an
assassin for Magneto unknown to them), he and his men again attempted to
recapture Logan, only to have their plans foiled by the X-Men. Wraith's
face was scarred by Logan's claws. In retribution, Wraith ordered the
capture of the X-Men, but again he failed to catch Logan.

He had Charles Xavier hooked up to machines to harness the Professor's
telepathy in order to help find other potential candidates for the
program. The mutants imprisoned at the Weapon X facility were tortured
on a daily basis; Rogue's arm was broken regularly and molten metal was
poured on Colossus to test durability. It was also during this time that
Beast gets mutated even further by Dr. Cornelius. To keep them in line,
Wraith had implanted micro explosives into them and if anyone got out of
line or tried to escape, it was their friends who would pay the
price.

The X-Men's first major mission forced them to split up. One team was
assigned to free Nick Fury having been captured by a foreign country,
while the other team was assigned to destroy a new bio-weapon being
developed by terrorists. Jean Grey was given the order to execute one of
the scientists they had captured but refused. Wraith threatened to
detonate Cyclops's implants for insubordination, at which point Jean is
forced to kill someone for the very first time.

When General Ross threatened to phase out Weapon X, Wraith used Xavier
to dispose of the General with a mental explosion. Wolverine eventually
gets captured, but had secretly led the Brotherhood to the facility in
an attempt of freeing the imprisoned mutants. When the mutants began to
break free, Wraith shot Xavier and attempted to flee in a helicopter.
The Blob held onto Wraith's helicopter, but eventually loses grip. Storm
tried to zap Wraith with lightning, but Nightcrawler saved the Colonel
who in turn tried to kill Nightcrawler. Fury killed Wraith and declared
that all the mutants at the facility were free to go.

Canadian government forces saved Wraith's life by injecting him with the
Banshee drug, and he was made leader of Alpha Flight. He also gained
superpowers. Wraith decided to call himself "Vindicator". His team went
to retrieve Northstar, which led the X-Men to find out that Wraith's
team all use Banshee. After the Ultimatum wave, Rogue sought out
Wraith after finding out his identity during a previous battle when some
of the X-Men went to rescue Northstar. Rogue convinced him to help kill
Magneto. He needed a few more people to help with this mission, so he
and Rogue captured Sabretooth and Juggernaut to reform Weapon X.


In other media

Television

-   In the X-Men Evolution episode "Target X", Omega Red references
    both Maverick and Kestrel to Wolverine, mentioning the latter during
    a rundown of Weapon X adversaries.
-   A character based on the Ultimate version of John Wraith appears in
    Wolverine and the X-Men: COLONEL MOSS (voiced by Michael
    Ironside). Colonel Moss is in charge of the Mutant Response Division
    and has a vendetta against Wolverine as Moss has claw marks across
    his face thanks to Wolverine at some point in the past, and was a
    former head of Weapon X. In the Sentinel-dominated future, Colonel
    Moss is a cyborg who handles putting power dampeners on mutants
    in prisons. Whenever his biological half is compromised by a
    telepath, his Sentinel mode would take over.

Film

-   Recording artist will.i.am (of The Black Eyed Peas) portrays John
    Wraith in the 2009 feature film X-Men Origins: Wolverine. This
    version is a teleporting mutant, and a member of Team X alongside
    Wolverine (James "Logan" Howlett), Victor Creed, Wade Wilson, Agent
    Zero, Chris Bradley and Fred Dukes under William
    Stryker's leadership. While initially loyal to the team, Wraith
    eventually quits the team due to morality issues as he and Logan
    didn't like what the team did but follows orders anyway (like
    abducting fellow mutants) and becomes a boxing manager. He appears
    to be the one member whom Logan fully trusts, being the first whom
    Logan pays a visit after so many years. When Wolverine arrives for
    information about Stryker's base, Wraith tells him to ask an obese
    Dukes that he's boxing to keep in shape. Before giving Logan any
    information, Dukes challenges Logan to a boxing match. Logan wins
    thanks to the adamantium skeleton, and Dukes directs toward escaped
    captive Remy LeBeau. Wraith goes with Wolverine which leads them to
    a casino in Louisiana. Wraith guards the back, only to be confronted
    by Creed. Knowing that he killed Bradley as well as apparently Wade
    and Dukes, Wraith fights Creed. Wraith uses his teleportation
    ability to his advantage and manages to strike Creed multiple times,
    but Creed, predicting Wraith's move, eventually positions himself in
    exactly the right place to grab Wraith's spine as Wraith appears,
    mortally wounding him. Creed takes a sample of Wraith's blood and
    his teleportation ability is used for Deadpool.

Video games

-   John Wraith appears in the X-Men Origins: Wolverine video game,
    voiced by will.i.am. He first appears when Wolverine is rescuing him
    from the headquarters of Project: WideAwake with the aid of Raven
    Darkholme, during which it is implied that he is the father of
    Nightcrawler. He leads Logan to Team X colleague Frederick Dukes,
    then to Remy LeBeau, and covers the back of the casino. Victor Creed
    sneak attacks and kills Wraith.

