KILLRAVEN (JONATHAN RAVEN) is a fictional freedom fighter in several
post-apocalyptic alternate futures depicted in stories published by
. Created by co-plotters Roy Thomas and Neal Adams,
scriptwriter Gerry Conway, and penciller Adams, the character first
appeared in Amazing Adventures vol. 2, #18 (May 1973). The series
featured the first dramatic interracial kiss in American color comic
books.


Publishing history

Co-creator Neal Adams' early ideas for Killraven involved the character
being the son of a Doc Savage archetype. This conception had been
reworked by the first issue, a multiple-creator goulash in which the two
originators and co-plotters turned the scripting over to another writer,
and in which artist co-creator Adams penciled only the first 11 pages
and Howard Chaykin the remaining nine. The second issue was fully
written by the debut's scripter, Gerry Conway, followed in the third by
Marv Wolfman.

After this, the book became the province of writer Don McGregor for an
acclaimed runIn addition to contemporaneous reviews in the 1970s,
latter-day reviews include:

-   "Don McGregor took over the 'Killraven' writing chores, and was
    joined soon after by P. Craig Russell. With their combined talents,
    and the freedom that comes with working on a low-selling book that
    could be canceled at any moment, the two of them produced a
    groundbreaking series that explored philosophy, madness, love,
    violence, and the nature of freedom". —
-   "Though quite a few folks had their hand in the original run back in
    Amazing Adventures, it was the words-and-pictures team of Don
    McGregor and P. Craig Russell that made my tentacles twitch.
    ...a classic". —
-   "As his work progressed, readers saw [P. Craig Russell] take
    artistic ownership of 'Killraven'. ... Much like Jim Steranko's work
    on 's Nick Fury, Agent of S.H.I.E.L.D, events flowed through
    some pages in a style that was as reminiscent of fine art as it was
    of comic art. Also impressive was his sense of design. Russell
    arguably produced some of the most imaginative, and visually
    horrific, monsters and villains in 's history. Don McGregor
    handled the writing for this issue-run, and credit must be given to
    his involved plots, as well as his ability to pack a lot of story
    into a 32-page pamphlet". — from #21 (Nov. 1973) to the final issue,
    #39 (Nov. 1976). Pencillers were Herb Trimpe, Rich Buckler, Gene
    Colan, and, most prominently, P. Craig Russell from issue #27 on.

Two of its characters, Carmilla Frost and the African American M'Shulla
Scott, shared color comic books' earliest known dramatic interracial
kiss, in issue #31 (July 1975), page nine, final panel.

Aside from McGregor, with whom the character became associated, other
writers include Bill Mantlo (a fill-in Amazing Adventures and a
 Team-Up with Killraven and a future-flung Spider-Man); Joe
Linsner (a 2001  Knights one-shot, Killraven, set in 2020 New
York City, at odds with the original series' locale by that fictional
year); and Alan Davis (also artist), in a 2002 parallel universe
miniseries, Killraven vol. 2. An Essential  volume in 2005
reprinted all the character's appearances except that Davis story.

McGregor and Russell, however, remain the series' signature creative
team; more than two decades after the original series' end, comics
historian Peter Sanderson wrote that,

Some planned elements of the "Killraven" saga were incorporated into the
Eclipse Comics series Sabre, McGregor and Russell each said in
1983.

The character made latter-day appearances in  Zombies 5 #2
(April 2010) where the war against the Martians is concluded, and in
The Avengers vol. 4, #4-6 (Aug.-Oct. 2010), the latter in the present
day after time-traveling. Killraven appears in Claws II (Aug. 2011),
in which the superheroes Wolverine and Black Cat meet him in the future
fighting Martians.

Unrealized projects

In the late 1980s, Don McGregor wrote 50 to 60 pages and P. Craig
Russell began illustrating a final story, "Killraven: Final Battles,
Final Lies, Final Truths" (also referred to as "Final Lies, Final
Truths, Final Battles"). The story never saw print, according to
McGregor, because  would not assure Russell the company would
print the story in 's best format at the time. In this intended
finale to McGregor's story, "Killraven would take that war back to the
intruders" on Mars itself.

In the mid-1990s, Grant Morrison and Mark Millar considered tying in
's 2099 imprint, making Ravage a descendant of Killraven. "Our
idea was that the Killraven stories had actually happened, but Earth
somehow got itself back together. It's now one hundred years later, and
the Martians are attacking again, meaning that all the superheroes were
going to have to deal with them." Galactus then arrives, and devours
Mars along with the Martians.

In 2005, writer Jim Valentino said his aborted plans for the 
comic Guardians of the Galaxy involved Killraven, in his 50s, joining
the team and forming an attraction to Yellowjacket (Rita DeMara).
Valentino said he would have established Franklin Richards as
Killraven's father.

Writer Robert Kirkman and artist Rob Liefeld announced in August 2007
they were creating a five-issue, alternate universe Killraven miniseries
planned for release in 2008, but the project never went into
production.


Fictional character biography

On the alternate-future Earth designated Earth-691 by ,
the Martians from H. G. Wells' The War of the Worlds return in 2001
for another attempt at conquering the planet (They were later retconned
as extrasolar aliens using Mars as a staging area.). After
humanity's enslavement, men not used as breeders or collaborators are
trained and forced to battle gladiator-style for the Martians'
amusement; women are used as breeders to supply infants, eaten by the
Martians as a delicacy. Jonathan Raven, dubbed Killraven as his
gladiatorial nom de guerre, escaped with the help of the gladiatorial
"keeper", but without his brother, Deathraven. Killraven joined the
Freemen, a group of freedom fighters against Martian oppression.

From 2018 to 2020, Killraven and his companions travel across the
eastern portion of North America, from New York City to Cape Canaveral
while searching for Killraven's lost brother. Pursued by the cyborg
Skar, the Freemen encounter various victims of Martian transhuman
experiments, as well as emotionally and psychologically scarred
survivors.

Fugitives from the Martians, Killraven and his Freemen — his African
American "mud-brother" M'Shulla Scott, the cynical and bitter Native
American Hawk, and the slow-witted strongman Old Skull — meet and
incorporate into their group the feisty scientist Carmilla Frost and
Grok, the deformed, apelike clone of her father. The Freemen ally
with the human/plant hybrid Mint Julep, and battle Abraxas, Rattack, the
High Overlord, and Skar. Killraven tames a mutated serpent-horse to
use as his mount, and his Freemen battle Pstun-Rage in Battle Creek,
Michigan. (In this encounter, the antagonists' names are anagrams of the
Battle Creek-based Kellogg Company's breakfast cereals). The Freemen
meet the flirty and sensual Volcana Ash, who helps them battle Atalon
and the Death-Breeders. After learning that his brother Joshua
(Deathraven) is still alive, Killraven fights Martian slaves
alongside a time-traveling Spider-Man, The Freeman eventually reach
the Everglades, where they encounter the butterfly-like Mourning
Prey.

Still later, the Freemen encounter Killraven's brother, Deathraven, and
discover he has become a Martian collaborator.

In November 2020, the Martian occupation is over when Killraven
unleashes a zombie plague on the Martians' food supply (humans and human
infants).


Powers and abilities

As a youth, gladiator-in-training Jonathan Raven's physical prowess was
heightened thanks to injections of experimental chemicals by Keeper
Whitman. He was later given mental powers through Whitman's
psycho-electric experiments, including the psionic ability to project
his consciousness into and take over a Martian's mind, and the psychic
ability to resist mental assaults and to mask his presence from robot
scanners.

Killraven is also a superb hand-to-hand combatant, and a highly skilled
swordsman, wrestler, and martial artist. He is a master of most hand
weaponry, especially shuriken. He is a master strategist in guerrilla
warfare. Killraven possesses an encyclopedic knowledge of human history,
art, and science predating the Martian invasion of A.D. 2001, implanted
in his mind by Keeper Whitman.

As artist P. Craig Russell described, "Killraven has a sort of
extrasensory ability to counterbalance his gladiatorial skills. He is
very much the barbarian type, yet at the same time he has this seed
planted in his brain that is the history of the human race — a racial
memory of everything that has been obliterated by the Martians. It's
almost a magical ability.... It was what removed him from being just
another sword-wielding gladiator type."

Killraven wears bulletproof fabrics and leather. He is armed with
various weapons as needed, and usually carried a sword and shuriken. He
sometimes rides a mutated serpent-horse, or appropriated Martian
vehicles and aircraft.


Other versions

[Killraven vol. 2, #3 (Feb. 2003). Cover art by Alan Davis.] There
have been counterparts of Killraven in several stories:

-   Following minor controversy among fans whether the Killraven of
    Amazing Adventures is the same as that depicted in the past of the
    Guardians of the Galaxy, the Official Handbook of the 
    Universe: Alternate Universes 2005 states that Killraven and the
    Guardians share the same timeline, set on the parallel universe
     designates "Earth-691".
-   The 1998-1999 miniseries Avengers Forever depicts Killraven as a
    member of an alternate future Avengers (Earth-9930) led by the Black
    Panther.
-   Alan Davis' 2002 miniseries Killraven depicted an alternate-future
    variation of the original series, set on the parallel universe
     designates "Earth-2120".
-   Jon Raven is WILL OF THE PEOPLE in Earth-7305 a Captain Britain
    Corps member who featured in Excalibur #50.
-   In an alternate future shown in Guardians of the Galaxy #18
    (2009), Killraven leads the Guardians against the Martians in the
    year 3009.
-   In 1975,  UK's Planet of the Apes comic reprinted Killraven
    as "Apeslayer", with alterations to substitute the Martians for apes
    and place the strip in the Planet of the Apes universe.

Mainstream  continuity

In the mainstream  Universe that the company dubs Earth-616,
Jonathan Raven appears in the 2006-2007 miniseries Wisdom. He is the
son of Wisdom's MI-13 co-worker and lover, Maureen Raven, and the target
of a trans-dimensional Martian Invasion because, as the Martian leader
states, "On all Earths! Always! Every one of him is dangerous! Ruling
council plan to invade all other Earths. So I urged this first
expedition now before he is grown". Wisdom is forced to kill Maureen in
order to stop the Martian invasion, while Jonathan is taken to an MI-6
safehouse in Prague and trained by martial artist Shang-Chi.


Parodies

-   In 's Howard the Duck #2 (March 1976), Howard dreams he is
    "Killmallard", a freedom fighter battling alien overlords who use
    tripods identical to those of Killraven's Martian opponents.


Movie

Hollywood trade stories in 2005 reported plans to adapt Killraven for a
theatrical motion picture, with  and Sony Pictures in negotiations
with Robert Schenkkan to write a script.


Collected editions

The original Killraven's complete adventures, listed here, were
collected in the 2005 trade paperback The Essential Killraven (ISBN
0-7851-1777-6):

-   Amazing Adventures vol. 2, #18-39 (May 1973 - Nov. 1976)
-    Team-Up #45 (May 1976)
-    Graphic Novel #7: Killraven, Warrior of the Worlds (1983,
    ISBN 0-939766-59-0)
-   Killraven #1 ( Knights, Feb. 2001)

Alan Davis' series have also been collected into harover (ISBN
0-7851-2538-8) and softcover (ISBN 0-7851-2841-7) volumes.

