KILLPOWER (JULIUS MULLARKEY) is a fictional British comic book character
from  UK. He is the partner of Motormouth and first appeared in
Motormouth #1. Killpower was created by Gary Frank and Graham Mark.


Publication history

After his initial appearance in Motormouth, Killpower went on to gain
a self-titled limited series. After that his series and Motormouth's
were combined and renamed Motormouth and Killpower, often with
Killpower's name appearing handwritten or scrawled below Motormouth's as
if in afterthought, possibly as a reference to Motormouth's view of him
as being a hanger-on.

He, along with Motormouth, appeared in Paul Cornell's Captain Britain
and MI13 in 2009 and then later in the 2014 Revolutionary War
miniseries.


Fictional character biography

Killpower is a genetically engineered super-being made by Gena-Sys Labs,
secretly a subsidiary of Mys-Tech. He was made by the mad scientist Dr.
Oonagh Mullarkey, using both human and animal DNA, as a form of
expendable supersoldier, and designed to mature at a rapid rate. He was
given the name "Julius Mullarkey" by his creator, and by the age of 18
months reached his adult size of and 325 pounds. He had a childlike
mentality, but was not taught any morals and had no understanding of
concepts like the value of human life. He took a great interest in guns
and other weapons, the bigger the better, but regarded shooting people
as a game.

He was used as an operative of Gena-Sys (and through them, Mys-Tech)
until he was sent to recover the missing MOPED (Mind Operated PErsonal
Dematerialization) unit, and encountered its new owner Motormouth. She
taught him that killing people was bad... the first he had ever heard of
such a notion ...and he broke down crying, thinking of all those he'd
killed on his missions. When Motormouth was shot in the throat, Julius
used his innate mechanical instincts to repair her with technology,
giving her a sonic scream as well as integrating the MOPED device into
her body. Motormouth and Killpower then became travelling partners and
adventurers. Killpower willingly helped Motormouth accomplish her goals,
such as tracking down the creators of the MOPED devices. Killpower is
one of the few male sidekicks who work with a heroine, such as
S.T.R.I.P.E., Ron Stoppable and Willie Garvin.

Killpower plays an important role in the 'Mys-Tech Wars' though only his
partner remembers the incident.

Later, Killpower, Death's Head, Dark Angel, the Incredible Hulk and
other heroes are kidnapped to take part in brutal gladitorial games.
They continue on far longer than they would because powerful pacifist
doctors have been enslaved in order to heal all fighters. Killpower uses
his technological skills to help the heroes overthrow the leader of the
games and destroy his plans to conquer all reality. Killpower perishes
in the final battle but the doctors resurrect him.

Some time later, he becomes a reserve agent for MI:13. While trying to
rescue Faiza Hussain's parents, he is taken hostage by Dracula.
However, due to his immunity to magic spells (part of why he was on
standby to rescue Hussain's family), he is not under Dracula's control
and acts as an undercover agent when MI:13 starts their assault.

When Mys-Tech tried to send all of Britain to Hell, Killpower fought at
the Battle of London Bridge and entered Hell to save Harley. The other
heroes were unable to rescue him and Killpower was left trapped in Hell,
terrified and manipulated by Mephisto into believing his friends did not
care enough to get him out. Years of manipulation turned him into a
rage-driven, murderous beast who, at Mephisto's urgings, would lead a
demonic invasion on Earth. During the battle, Killpower tried to kill
Harley in revenge but her sonic scream managed to clear his mind;
realising he'd been made into "a bad man", he allowed Britain's
super-soldiers to kill him.


Other versions

Days of Future Past

As detailed in this alternate future, Killpower is one of the few
survivors of the anti-Sentinel front, the Resistance Coordination
Execution. He follows the lead of Nigel Orpington-Smythe, a counterpart
of R.C.X.. Motormouth had been one of the previous victims of a Sentinel
attack.


Powers and abilities

Killpower has a combination of Human and animal DNA as well as
"bio-occult conditioning" provided by Mys-Tech. He possesses enhanced
strength, speed, stamina, reflexes, senses, and agility. He was shown
shrugging off the impact of twenty tons of debris. He also has an
instinctive affinity for all sorts of technology, a "mecha-psychometry"
that allows him to use, repair and rebuild devices which he has never
seen before.

Killpower has received training in various forms of combat and the use
of numerous firearms.


Notes

