KORG is a character in the  universe and is first seen in
The Incredible Hulk #93 during the Planet Hulk storyline.


Publication history

Created by Greg Pak and Carlo Pagulayan, Korg was inspired by Thor's
origin story and was later retconned in The Incredible Hulk #94
into one of the stone creatures that fought Thor in Journey into
Mystery #83 released in 1963.


Fictional character biography

Korg is part of the Kronan race seen in Journey into Mystery #83.
After his defeat at the hands of Thor when the Stone men tried to invade
Earth, Korg became a prisoner of the Red King on the alien planet of
Sakaar. He was forced into slavery by an obedience disk and made to
fight for his life in the gladitorial arenas. Korg was made to kill his
brother Margus against his will. This fact still haunts Korg to this
day.

When the Hulk was exiled to the Red King's planet, Korg became the
Hulk's ally after he and five others were victorious during one of the
gladiator games that rule on the planet as a form of entertainment. Korg
was the first to let the group talk to each other, and after more
victories in the game, Korg became a gladiator. Still fighting alongside
the Hulk, Korg was part of the group that rebelled against the Red King
after the Silver Surfer used his Power Cosmic to destroy the disks that
controlled the slaves. The Surfer had also been made a slave by such a
disk, but it was destroyed by the Hulk when they were forced to battle
(in the film adaptation, it was Beta Ray Bill, not the Silver Surfer,
using the lightning powers of his hammer, Stormbreaker, to perform this
feat).

After the detonation of Sakaar, Korg convinces Hiroim (who has lost his
hope and wanted to stay to die) to come with him on the space ship. Korg
was with the Hulk and the others and managed to knockout Wonder Man.
However, after the discovery that Miek had triggered the destruction of
Sakaar, Korg and the other surviving Warbound surrendered to
S.H.I.E.L.D. custody, only to escape when earthquakes began to tear
Manhattan Island apart due to the damage the Hulk had caused. Working
with fellow Warbound member Hiroim and Earth hero Thing, Korg was able
to heal the damage caused to the island, before he and his fellow
Warbound retreated into the sewers.

Korg is also featured in World War Hulk: Frontline as a detective of
sorts and is partnered up with a New York detective when investigating
the death of Arch-E-5912. In the Avengers: The Initiative issue of
World War Hulk, Korg is confronted by his fear when Trauma comes to
rescue is fellow Cadets: Korg's worst fear is the Thunder god Thor.

In the miniseries Warbound, he helps in the defeat of the Leader who has
turned a city in the middle of the desert into a new Gamma World but at
the cost of Hiroim.

Bruce Banner calls on Korg's help when The Leader and M.O.D.O.K
transform an army and many of Earth's heroes into "Hulks", helping
subdue them.

During the Chaos War storyline, Korg ends up helping the Hulks and
A-Bomb fight a resurrected Abomination and the forces of
Amatsu-Mikaboshi. When the Zom part of Doctor Strange is awakened by
Amatsu-Mikaboshi, Marlo Chandler ends up using the death fragment to
resurrect some of Hulk's allies. One of them is Hiroim as it is shown
that Korg and Hiroim had a same-gender relationship (although Korg's
people have no separate genders).


Powers and abilities

Like all Kronans, Korg possesses a body made of a durable, silicon-based
substance that grants him protection against nearly all forms of
physical harm and gives him a rock-like appearance. In oxygen-rich
atmospheres, Korg also possesses vast superhuman strength almost
comparable to Hercules. His mineral state also grants him an extremely
prolonged lifespan.

When fighting as a gladiator, he mostly relied on his physical power and
extremely durable form, rather than actual fighting skills. He is,
however, an experienced military strategist and consummate pragmatist,
constantly assessing his environment so he can tell what actions are
necessary for his continued survival.


Other versions

 Zombies Return

In the fourth issue Hulk, along with the Warbound, reach the moon in
hopes to start World War Hulk but instead meet Zombiefied versions of
Giant Man and the Immortals. At the start of the battle, Korg is blown
to pieces and killed.

What if: Planet Hulk

In "What if The Hulk died and Caiera had lived?" Korg is shown
devastated that Miek was killed in the destruction of Sakaar not knowing
he was the one responsible. He also participates in the conquering of
Earth with Caiera as queen.

What if: World War Hulk

In "What if the heroes had lost World War Hulk" Korg and the rest of
Warbound are killed after Iron Man didn't hesitate in using the laser
and destroys New York.

In "What if Thor had battled Hulk?", Korg and the rest of the Warbound
ended up fighting the Warriors Three until Miek's treachery was known.
After Thor had successfully reasoned with Hulk, Korg left with the
Warbound to return to Sakaar in order to rebuild it.


In other media

Television

-   Korg appears in The Super Hero Squad Show episode "Planet Hulk",
    voiced by Dave Wittenberg.
-   Korg appears in the Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H._ episode
    "Planet Leader", voiced by Jonathan Adams. He is shown to be
    among the Sakaar inhabitants to be controlled by Leader as he is
    seen among the slaves in the Sakaar mines. Korg blames Skaar for
    helping Leader conquer Sakaar. During the revolution, Red Hulk
    convinced Korg to help them free Sakaar from Leader.

Film

-   Korg appeared in the Planet Hulk film voiced by Kevin Michael
    Richardson.
-   A character resembling Korg appears in the 2013 film Thor: The Dark
    World, adapting the original battle between him and Thor from
    Journey Into Mystery. The titan is offered to fight Thor, who, in
    less than one minute, destroys him with a single blow from Mjolnir.

