LIFEGUARD (HEATHER CAMERON) is a comic book character, a superhero in
the  universe, associated with the X-Men. Created by writer
Chris Claremont and artist Salvador Larroca, she first appeared in
X-Treme X-Men #6 (December 2001).

She is a mutant, gaining whatever superhuman abilities are needed in a
life-threatening situation. She and her brother Slipstream were briefly
members of the segment of X-Men featured in the series X-Treme X-Men._


Fictional character biography

X-Treme X-Men

Heather and Davis Cameron were a lifeguard and a surfer, respectively,
living in Surfers Paradise in Australia. Unbeknownst to them, their
father is an underworld crime lord known as Viceroy, and upon his death
they were attacked. Together with Storm and Neal Shaara (the new
Thunderbird), they managed to defeat their attackers. Heather discovered
she was a mutant with the power to manifest whatever was necessary to
save the life of someone in danger around her, including her own. Her
power enabled her to manifest wings, golden armor, the ability to
breathe underwater, and many other less noticeable adaptations. Heather
soon joined the splinter team of X-Men, and formed a romance with
Thunderbird.

During a mission to infiltrate the ship of the intergalactic warlord,
Khan, Heather's appearance changes to resemble the alien Shi'ar race,
and it was theorized that she and Davis had some Shi'ar heritage. Jean
Grey notes that the cranial markings on her head and the crest of
feathers she had manifested indicated Heather is of Shi'ar royal
ancestry. Also, an entry from Destiny's diary seems to imply that
Heather and Davis were "Mothered by War," or Deathbird. The entry shows
a picture of Deathbird and some of the X-Treme team. Her brother,
unable to see past her new, alien appearance, leaves the team. Lifeguard
and Thunderbird travel in search of him.

The Xavier Institute

Months later, Lifeguard and Thunderbird returned to the X-Men,
apparently not locating Slipstream. Together with Thunderbird, she
joined the X-Corporation. However this only lasted weeks, as there was a
synchronized attack on several of the X-Corporation offices after the
catastrophic events of M-Day, leading Cyclops to call for the disbanding
of all offices.

Heather is one of a handful of mutants to have retained her powers in
the wake of House of M. Still involved with Thunderbird III, she wasn't
active in any X-Men roster, though the 198 Files verified her location
as residing at the Xavier Institute for Higher Learning.

Utopia

Heather later resurfaces after the events of Schism as a member of
Cyclops' street team with Boom Boom and Dazzler in San Francisco and
Utopia.


Powers and abilities

Heather's mutant power allows her body to react to any threat by
transforming or manifesting a power to deal with the situation (similar
to that of the X-Men's Darwin). In all of her appearances, she has only
been shown to use this ability while defending herself and others. It
is as yet unknown if she's able to use this ability for her own
protection. She has a moderate level of control over this power and has
sometimes been able to trigger it at will, although she has not
displayed any control over the transformations or powers she manifests.
Heather has mostly manifested physical changes such as extra arms,
armored skin, wings, and a mermaid tail - However, in her first
appearance, she also demonstrated hydrokinesis. The full extent of
Lifeguard's abilities have yet to be revealed.

In her most recent appearance with the emergence of her inherent Shi'ar
genome, she appeared to be locked into her final transformation of gold
skin, wings, and claws, still unable to control her powers and possibly
unable to transform any further or reverse the change.


Other versions

X-Men: The End

Lifeguard appears in X-Men: The End as a protector of Aliyah Bishop in
the Shi'ar Imperium. She is ultimately killed sacrificing herself for
Aliyah.

