LIVING LIGHTNING (MIGUEL SANTOS) is a fictional character, a superhero
appearing in American comic books published by . He first
appeared in Avengers West Coast #63, published in October, 1990. The
character was created by writers Dann Thomas and Roy Thomas and artist
Paul Ryan. In 2005 it was revealed that Miguel Santos was homosexual,
but the aspects of his character were not pushed as a big deal.

He started out trying to clear the name of his father, Carlos Santos, by
investigating the Legion of the Living Lighting. During his
investigations a machine accidentally gave him the power to not only
control lightning but also to turn into the human embodiment of
lighting. He became a member of the Avengers West Coast and served with
them during Operation: Galactic Storm. During the Civil War he sided
with Captain America who was against super hero registration. At the end
of the Civil War Living Lighting joined the 50 states initiative,
becoming a member of Texas-based super-team, The Rangers that also
include Firebird, Fifty-One. Red Wolf, Shooting Star and Texas Twister.


Publication history

Living Lightning first appeared in the story "When Lives the Lightning"
in Avengers West Coast #63 (October, 1990), written by Dann Thomas and
Roy Thomas, and illustrated by Paul Ryan. From 1991 to 1994, he began
as an enemy of Avengers West Coast in Avengers West Coast #71–73 then
became a member of the team and has made nineteen other appearances in
this series with #74–80, #82, #84–90, #92, #96, #100, #102 and two in
Avengers West Coast Annual #7–8.

In 1992, as an Avenger, he appeared in other titles of the crossover
Operation: Galactic Storm with The Avengers #345, #347, Captain
America #401, Quasar #33, Thor #445–446 and Wonder Man vol.2
#8–9.

During the same year, Miguel Santos played a role in the comic book
limited series Infinity War with #1–3, 6 and several tie-ins. In 1993,
he appeared in the sequel, Infinity Crusade with #1, #3–5 and the
tie-in Web of Spider-Man with #104, #106.

In 1998, Living Lightning appeared in The Avengers #1–3.

In 2005, he made a brief appearance in GLA #2 written by Dan Slott, in
which Living Lightning is revealed to be gay.

From 2006 to 2008, Miguel Santos played a role in the events of Civil
War. He appeared in Civil War #4–6, The Amazing Spider-Man #537,
Civil War: Battle Damage Report #1, Civil War: Front Line #11 and
Civil War Chronicles #6. Living Lightning has been identified as one
of the 142 registered superheroes who appear on the cover of the comic
book Avengers: The Initiative #1. The character became a member of
the Rangers and appeared in the issues #2 (July 2007) and #19 (January
2009) of this series.

In 2009, he made two appearances in the series Avengers Unconquered
with the episodes #4 and #6. This series is a part of  UK's
'Collectors' Edition' line. It is published by Panini Comics and
reprints  from the United States.

In 2012, writer Chris Yost chose the Texas team the Rangers to come into
conflict with Houston's new superhero Scarlet Spider in the story "The
Second Master" in Scarlet Spider #7–9. In an interview with
Comic Book Resources, at a question about the antagonists in the story,
Chris Yost answered "You'll also be seeing a well known super-hero group
from the American southwest named – wait for it – The Rangers! Texas
Twister! Shooting Star! Red Wolf! Living Lightning! Firebird! Even a new
hero or two! And spoiler alert – Scarlet Spider will fight them."

Living Lightning has also been depicted in two alternative universes
with "What If the Avengers Lost Operation Galactic Storm?", What
If...?_ #55–56 (1993) and with a brief appearance in "What if the
Scarlet Witch Hadn't Acted Alone?", What If? Avengers Disassembled
(2006).

The character has entries in The Official Handbook of the 
Universe: Master Edition #28 (1990), in The Official Handbook of the
 Universe: Avengers 2005 and also in The  Encyclopedia
(2006).


Fictional character biography

Miguel Santos was born in East Los Angeles, California. Miguel's father,
Carlos, was a member of an extremist group called THE LEGION OF THE
LIVING LIGHTNING. In a misguided attempt by the Legion to gain control
of the Hulk, the group battled him. The Legion was thus destroyed, and
Carlos was killed.

Hoping to salvage his father's name, high school student Miguel broke
into the Legion's headquarters to learn more about their work. While
exploring, Miguel unwittingly turned on one of the Legion's machines and
was transformed into a being of living energy. Initially, a confused
Miguel clashed with the West Coast Avengers and was apparently killed
during the conflict. Later, he turned up alive and was captured by
the villain, Doctor Demonicus, and was coerced to join the Pacific
Overlords. After a brief, unwilling foray into crime, Miguel aided
the Avengers West Coast, and then joined the team. During his tenure
with the Avengers West Coast, he teamed with heroes such as the
Fantastic Four, Doctor Strange, Darkhawk, and Spider-Man. He battled
villains such as Arkon and Thundra, the second Hangman, the Night
Shift, Satannish, Death Web, Professor Power, and the
Magus. Alongside the Avengers, he participated in the
Kree/Shi'ar War. He eventually decided to become an Avengers
reservist while attending college. While he occasionally serves with
the team, Miguel gave up active membership to concentrate on his
studies.

For a time, Miguel and his fellow Avenger Quasar manned a deep-space
monitoring station. Their powers enabled them to travel back and forth
to Earth without difficulty. Miguel took advantage of the isolation to
study.

The Great Lakes Avengers (GLA) invited Miguel Santos in order to recruit
him in their team. During the meeting, he turned them down, explaining
that he'd attended thinking the team's acronym GLA referred to the
Gay/Lesbian Alliance. With his explanation, he inadvertently revealed
that he was gay to GLA member Flatman.

During the Civil War storyline, Miguel joined Captain America's Secret
Avengers as one of twenty new members who opposed the Superhuman
Registration Act. He worked with the team out of a series of safe houses
set up by Nick Fury. He was part of the final battle between the two
main sides. After Captain America surrendered to the authorities, Living
Lightning became an Initiative recruit, joining the Texas
Rangers.

During the Secret Invasion storyline, Living Lightning was with the
Rangers when they, 3-D Man, and Ant-Man III were fighting a Skrull that
was posing as Lobo.

After the Dark Reign storyline, Living Lightning was doing private
security work for the Avengers; notably protecting the family of
Avengers Academy student Striker.

Living Lightning was with the Rangers when they come into conflict with
Kaine alias Scarlet Spider in Houston, then they joined
forces with him to battle a monster made of pure energy.


Sexuality

[Art from GLA #2, by Paul Pelletier.|thumb|right] During his tenure in
the West Coast Avengers, Miguel dated women. Later, though, Miguel was
approached by members of the Great Lakes Avengers, who hoped to recruit
them for their team. When he heard the team's acronym (GLA), Miguel
mistook them for the Gay/Lesbian Alliance and inadvertently revealed
that he was gay to GLA member Flatman.

Writer Dan Slott commented in an interview about his decision to out
Living Lightning: "He's gay. Get over it. Previous girlfriends? Beards.
Or relationships that just didn't work—because Miguel hadn't come to
terms yet with who he really is. Miguel is a gay superhero and a
wonderful role model."


Powers and abilities

Living Lightning gained superhuman powers when he absorbed energy from
an experimental lightning weapon. Living Lightning has the ability to
transform his body into electrical plasma, in which form he can fly at
sub-light speed, generate electrical power as shocks or bolts, and
surround himself with a protective electrical force field. He has the
ability to control his body while composed of electrical plasma, at
which time his mind exists only in astral form.

In his true form, Living Lightning is just that, a sentient electrical
force with no mass. In this form, he can fly, reaching sub-light speeds,
withstanding the vacuum of space, and is impervious to most physical and
energy attacks. He also possesses the ability to fire and manipulate
bursts of electricity and electrical fields of varying intensities in
his solid form, however, he must wear a special containment suit to
retain a solid form.

Miguel has knowledge of basic street-fighting techniques. He is
bilingual in Spanish and English.

