The LIVING BRAIN is a fictional comic book character and robot in the .
Created by writer Stan Lee and Steve Ditko, the character first appears
in The Amazing Spider-Man #8 and has made few subsequent appearances
since.

A foe of the hero Spider-Man, the Living Brain was created by the
fictional International Computing Machines Corporation and billed as the
most intelligent computer and robot in existence, capable of solving
virtually any question asked of it.


Publication history

Created by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko, the Living Brain's first appearance
was in The Amazing Spider-Man #8 (Jan. 1964).


Fictional character history

[Living Brain's first appearance, The Amazing Spider-Man #8 (Feb.
1964). Art by Steve Ditko.] The Living Brain, soon after its creation,
is brought to Midtown High School by its creator Dr. Petty as a part of
a demonstration of its ability to solve any problem. The students agreed
to ask Spider-Man's secret identity, and a nervous Peter Parker fed it
the given information about the wall-crawler. The answer was given in
mathematical code for Peter to decode that night (because of this, it is
unknown if the Living Brain had correctly deduced Spider-Man's true
identity). After the Living Brain's demonstration, two workmen hired to
transport it overhear the Living Brain's ability to answer anything and
decide to steal it in order to use its abilities for gambling purposes.
Caught in the middle of stealing the Living Brain by Dr. Petty, the two
workmen get into a scuffle with him, which ends with one of them being
knocked into the control panel on the Living Brain's chest, which causes
the Living Brain to malfunction. Going on a rampage through Midtown
High, the Living Brain is eventually defeated by Spider-Man, who shuts
it down, in a brief fight. Peter walked home, thinking that the next day
he'd tell everyone he'd lost the code during the confusion.

The Living Brain reappears several years later, now discredited and
broken-down. Dr. Petty plans to donate it to Midtown High School's
science lab. The Living Brain ends up being stolen by Dr. Petty's son
Steve Petty who modifies the robot, giving it a gold and red color
scheme, clawed hands and the ability to fly. Remotely controlling the
Living Brain to attack a bully who had been tormenting him, Steve is
eventually defeated by Spider-Man (who had been on a visit to Midtown
High as Peter Parker) and the Living Brain is shut down once more.
The Living Brain, restored to its pre-upgrade appearance, was then
acquired by a group of criminals, who used it to commit robberies. The
robot and its controllers were apprehended by Spider-Man, who mockingly
referred to the Living Brain as "a talking gumball machine".

The Beyond Corporation somehow created duplicates of Living Brain and
unleashed them upon Nextwave at the time when they invaded the Beyond
Corporation's State 51 base. Nextwave managed to make short work of the
Living Brain duplicates.

Living Brain was among the contestants in a cosmic roller derby held by
Chadmaster (a younger version of the Grandmaster). It was destroyed by a
Sentinel.

As part of the  NOW!_ event, Living Brain appears as a member of
Boomerang's incarnation of the Sinister Six. Following the Sinister
Six's defeat at the hands of the Superior Spider-Man (Doctor Octopus's
mind in Peter Parker's body), Living Brain's body is in the custody of
Horizon Labs. Living Brain has been reprogrammed by Otto and now
serves as his assistant.

Living Brain later preps Otto's lab for a "Parker-Ectomy."

When Spider-Island II is attacked by the Goblin Underground, the
Superior Spider-Man gets Living Brain out and rides it away from
Spider-Island II while evading the pursuers from the Goblin Underground.
The Superior Spider-Man later uses Living Brain to help fight Monster
(the Goblin form of Carlie Cooper).

After Peter Parker reclaimed his body, Living Brain was kept as his
assistant at Parker Industries.

When Ghost takes over the security measures to attack the Parker
Industries staff as part of his sabotage mission upon being hired by
Mark Raxton and Tiberius Stone of Alchemax, Living Brain is ordered by
Peter Parker to protect the employees during the evacuation and is
damaged in the process.

As part of the All-New, All-Different  event, Living Brain and
Anna Maria Marconi were shown in Parker Industries' London branch where
they greet Sanjani Jaffrey. Once Sajani is out of earshot, Anna jokingly
orders Living Brain to terminate her, but he responds that his
programming prevents him from complying. Anna remarks that she'll have
to upgrade his sarcasm-detection software and sets off to comply with
Sajani's orders. Living Brain follows and offers to assist her, making
her remark that ever since his last upgrade, he's become clingy. Anna is
unaware that Living Brain contains a copy of the consciousness of Doctor
Octopus.


Powers and abilities

Living Brain has the ability to analyze any situation and determine how
best to achieve its goals. Like any computer, Living Brain can process
and collate large amounts of information. Living Brain can find any
weaknesses in a being or structure as well as determining the best
situation to overcome this obstacle. Living Brain has dense metal
exo-skeleton and possesses super-strength and speed. It can also fly and
has clawed hands. The joints of Living Brain's limbs can rotate nearly
360 degrees. Originally, Living Brain had external controls on its
thorax, with which it can be deactivated, yet Living Brain has always
countered any attempts to reach it. Living Brain was later operated by
remote-control. The Living Brain has great strength, ability to move
upon command and its limbs can perform various motions...It has the
ability to think due to its great computerized "brain"...It was
short-circuited after its first introduction in the school and went
hay-wire until Peter readjusted the machine back to normal...The
"souped-up" later version had the ability to hover or fly and was quite
stronger.


Other versions

 Age

In the  Age Universe, the Living Brain (radically redesigned,
with a humanoid shape somewhat similar to the  character Chemo)
appears in a more modern re-telling of its original appearance in the
comics. The Living Brain, was developed by Roxxon to demonstrate itself
at Peter's school, Midtown High. It is taken down due to an inability to
deduce Spider-Man's identity, however two students decide to use the
robot to steal for them. However they accidentally switch him into
defense mode, tearing through the school, until de-activated by
Spider-Man.

What If?

The Living Brain appears among the villains defeated by Spider-Man in
What If?: J. Jonah Jameson Adopted Spider-Man?_


In other media

Television

-   In the Spider-Man episode "The Return of Hydro-Man" Pt. 2, a robot
    in the toy shop resembles Living Brain.

