LOCKJAW is a fictional bulldog-like being appearing in American comic
books published by .


Publication history

He first appeared in Fantastic Four #45 (December 1965), and was
created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby.


Fictional character biography

Lockjaw was born on the island of Attilan, formerly in the Atlantic
Ocean. Lockjaw resembles a giant bulldog and serves in the capacity of
the Inhumans' teleporter and escort to the Royal Family of the Inhumans.
Many times he has brought Inhumans to Earth and back again. At times,
his powers have been manipulated by evil forces, most usually Maximus
the Mad.

Lockjaw and the Royal Family encountered Maximus' creation, the Trikon,
and were driven from Attilan's Great Refuge in exile.

Lockjaw first appeared as a member of the Inhumans when they attempted
to retrieve Medusa from the outside world and take her back to Attilan.
This led them into conflict with the Fantastic Four, the first humans
they met, who were harboring Medusa after rescuing her from the
villainous Frightful Four. Accordingly, Lockjaw is indirectly
responsible for revealing the existence of Attilan to the outside world.
They returned to Attilan and became trapped in Maximus' "negative zone"
barrier around the Great Refuge.

Lockjaw is able to escape and becomes separated from his city. He roams
the country for some time, accidentally terrorizing the local citizens,
until he meets up with Johnny Storm and Wyatt Wingfoot. He journeyed
with the pair in their attempt to breach the "negative zone" barrier.
Before long, the Inhumans were freed from the "negative zone" barrier,
and Lockjaw transported Crystal to New York, and brought Triton from
Attilan to rescue Mister Fantastic. Lockjaw was later compelled to
return Crystal to Attilan by Maximus.

With Crystal, Lockjaw was captured by Diablo. They later rescued the
injured Quicksilver. Before long, Lockjaw attended the wedding of
Quicksilver and Crystal. He also brought the Fantastic Four to
Attilan to battle Thraxton.

Seemingly speaking

At one point, Quicksilver and the Thing witnessed what appeared to be
Lockjaw, apparently a sentient being once mutated by Terrigen Mists,
speaking to them. This convinces Quicksilver not to expose his daughter
Luna to the Mists. However, Lockjaw later brought Quicksilver to
Washington, D.C., in search of X-Factor, and Quicksilver there stated
that Lockjaw's sentience was actually a hoax perpetrated on the Thing by
Karnak and Gorgon.

Lockjaw brought the other Inhumans to Earth in search of Medusa when she
fled Attilan to avoid a compulsory abortion. He also transported the
injured Triton back to Attilan. With Crystal, he later summoned the
Avengers to help battle Thane Ector and the Brethren. With the
Avengers, he battled the Brethren.

As noted in Ka-Zar #12, Lockjaw also travels to the Heroes Reborn
universe with his Inhuman family. This visit lasts for about a year; all
are returned successfully.

Having always been particularly fond of Ben Grimm, Lockjaw elects to
stay with him. Ben, fondly recounting that he "always wanted a dog",
accepted. It is not known why Lockjaw did not accompany Ben Grimm when
he felt the need to retreat to France during the Civil War.

Lockjaw is featured into the 2006 limited series Son of M. With the
majority of the mutants on Earth having been rendered powerless,
Quicksilver decides to steal the Inhumans mutagenic Terrigen Mists and
re-power willing mutants. Lockjaw is convinced to help him on the
mission. Traveling with Quicksilver's daughter Luna, they traverse the
Earth, heading to such places as Genosha. The other Inhumans follow.

Later, Lockjaw rejoins Black Bolt, Medusa and other Inhumans in order to
assist a super-human strikeforce in taking down the confused Sentry.

Lockjaw assists his family tracking down Black Bolt, who had been
captured by the Skrulls. Using technology gained from their allies, the
Kree, Lockjaw's abilities are upgraded, allowing him to teleport much
farther.

New allies

In 2009, Lockjaw received a four-issue mini-series titled Lockjaw and
the Pet Avengers, teaming with Lockheed, Redwing, Ms. Lion (Aunt May's
puppy from Spider-Man and His Amazing Friends), Zabu, Niels the
Cat/Hairball, and a new frog named Throg. This series involves Lockjaw
bringing the Infinity Gauntlet together with the assistance of animal
allies. The series was well-received enough that there have been two
additional mini-series with the Pet Avengers.

Lockjaw re-joins his Inhuman family for the conflicts that eventually
led to them taking over the Kree empire. This leads to the seeming loss
of Black Bolt despite Crystal and Lockjaw's best efforts. This
conflict also leads to the ravaging of the Shi'ar Empire. As his family
determines who will rule, Lockheed is seen playing closely with Luna and
assisting with Shi'ar recovery efforts. Lockjaw again becomes
involved with gathering the Infinity Gauntlet together when the Soul Gem
is lost and later found. Lockjaw was also sent by Medusa to keep an
eye on recent Inhuman Ms.  (Kamala Khan), and helps her in her
battle against a bird/human hybrid clone of Thomas Edison known as The
Inventor.


Powers and abilities

Lockjaw seemingly has "super-canine" strength in his jaw for a dog his
age and size. At one time, he locked on to the Thing's arm and the Thing
could not get him to let go. Lockjaw can also teleport himself, and
nearby living creatures and matter to anywhere he wants, from the Earth
to the Moon, and can even open passages between dimensions. Energy
barriers that are seemingly impenetrable to others seem to pose no
problem to him. Lockjaw also has the ability to psionically trace a
given "scent" across dimensional space.

Lockjaw also once seemingly sensed danger from far off, when Doctor Doom
had manipulated Silver Surfer's powers.

Lockjaw is capable of chewing and swallowing inorganic material, such as
scraps of sophisticated robots, with no ill effect. It is not known if
this is his primary source of nourishment.

In the Secret Invasion: Inhumans mini-series, the Royal Family enter
into an alliance with the Kree to free Black Bolt from his Skrull
captors. To that end, the Kree greatly enhance Lockjaw's teleportation
powers, enabling him to teleport himself and others over vast
interplanetary distances.


Other versions

Earth X

In the alternate future of Earth X, Lockjaw is shot by some gaseous
bullet and murdered by Maximus. His teleportation-forehead assembly is
seemingly the only part of him that has survived. It is used by Black
Bolt and the other Inhumans to investigate happenings on Earth.

 Knights 2099

Lockjaw is one of the few Royal family members to survive to the year
2099; Maximus the Mad had slain the rest. The Inhumans had established
themselves on a space station also called Attilan.

 Zombies

Lockjaw appears zombified along with the Royal Family of the Inhumans,
creating a portal for them to meet with the Kingpin. He is later
seen trying to attack Machine Man. The heroic android tricks Lockjaw
into teleporting to the mainstream  Universe. Lockjaw is tricked
into eating an explosive-laden human brain. He is destroyed in the
explosion. Another Lockjaw is seen when the zombie virus spreads to
"Earth Z". He too is zombiefied and assists in slaying the "Warbound".
He was captured by Machine Man, Ultron and Jocasta.

Ultimate 

Lockjaw also appears in Ultimate Fantastic Four Annual #1. In this
incarnation, he has teleportation powers as well. He leaves the
Inhumans' Himalayan refuge with Crystal, who is running away because she
was being forced to marry Black Bolt's brother, Maximus (only Crystal
suspects he is mad). Lockjaw assists in saving Crystal from her pursuing
guards but they eventually drag her back home anyway. They leave him
behind and he brings the Fantastic Four for assistance. This is not well
received as most of Inhuman society severely dislikes any outsiders.
Black Bolt ends up destroying the evacuated Attilan simply because the
Four "contaminated" it. Several of the Inhumans indicate they had
conspired for Lockjaw to be left behind in the human world.


In other media

Television

-   Lockjaw appears in the 1978 Fantastic Four animated series. In the
    episode "Blastaar, the Living Bomb Burst," he teams up with
    Blastaar.
-   Lockjaw appears in the 1994 Fantastic Four animated series. In the
    episode "Hopelessly Impossible," he helps the Human Torch get the
    Impossible Man to the Great Refuge and away from the Super-Skrull.
-   Lockjaw appears in the Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H._ episode
    "Inhuman Nature." In the episode "Planet Monster" Pt. 2, Lockjaw
    (alongside Black Bolt and Gorgon) are among the superheroes that
    help the Agents of S.M.A.S.H. and the Avengers fight the forces of
    the Supreme Intelligence.
-   Lockjaw appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man episode "Inhumanity."
-   Lockjaw appears in the Guardians of the Galaxy episode "Crystal
    Blue Persuasion." He brings the Guardians of the Galaxy to Attilan
    at the time when the Inhumans have come down with a plague that
    causes crystals to grow on their bodies. Lockjaw was present when
    Maximus uses mind-control technology on Black Bolt. When Ronan the
    Accuser steals Maximus' mind-control helmet as part of his plan to
    destroy Attilan, Lockjaw is ordered by a mind-controlled Black Bolt
    to take him and Star-Lord to the Terrigen Crystal caverns
    beneath Attilan. Upon Star-Lord using the CryptoCube, Lockjaw was
    among the Inhumans cured of the plague. After Medusa thanks the
    Guardians of the Galaxy on Black Bolt's behalf, Star-Lord has
    Lockjaw fetch his baseball.

Video games

-   Lockjaw appears as a non-playable hero in the video game :
    Ultimate Alliance. His duty was to send the heroes to the Shi'ar
    galaxy and Skrull homeworld to gather implements necessary to
    defeating a divinely-empowered Doctor Doom. Also though not there in
    appearance, the game implies that the mini-portals used in the game
    for midpoint to home-base transport are made by Lockjaw since every
    time the player tries to create a portal outside the circumstances
    when that is possible, the message "Lockjaw cannot create a portal
    in that area" appears. This creates somewhat of a continuity error
    since when the player gains that ability, it is attributed to an
    experimental teleportation device created by S.H.I.E.L.D. He also
    has special "conversations" with Spider-Man, Deadpool, and Thing.

Non-fiction

-   The debate over Lockjaw's sentience is discussed in Peter David's
    non-fiction book 'Writing For Comics'. In this, he discussed how he
    tried to go with Stan Lee and Jack Kirby's original assertion that
    Lockjaw was a 'dumb animal'. He appears in a discussion of
     in a reprinted segment of a Casey At The Bat parody
    in 'The Penguin Book of Comics'. In the context, he has accompanied
    Crystal to the baseball game.


Reception

In August 2009, TIME listed Lockjaw as one of the "Top 10 Oddest
 Characters".

