MAGIK (ILLYANA NIKOLIEVNA RASPUTINA - typically anglicized to RASPUTIN)
is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by
, most often in relation to the X-Men. She first appeared
in the comic book Giant-Size X-Men #1 (May 1975).

Magik is the younger sister of the Russian X-Man Colossus. She is a
member of a fictional sub-species of humanity known as mutants, who are
born with superhuman abilities. Her natural mutant power is the ability
to teleport. She also is a capable sorceress.


Publication history

Illyana first appeared in Giant-Size X-Men #1 (May 1975), though her
first name was not given until Uncanny X-Men #145 (May 1981). For the
first eight years of the character's existence, she was an infrequently
appearing background character. The means of changing this was set in
Uncanny X-Men #160 (August 1982), in which she ages seven years while
in a paranormal dimension called Limbo, became a sorceress, and develops
the mutant ability to create "teleportation discs." These changes were
not immediately explored or explained, and for the next year she
remained essentially a background character.

In December 1983, the limited series Magik (Illyana and Storm)_ was
launched, chronicling Illyana's years in Limbo. Immediately following
the end of the series, she was added to the cast of the New Mutants,
appearing regularly in that comic until New Mutants #77 (July 1989),
in which she returns to her family in Russia after having reverted to
childhood. As the younger sister of Colossus and a member of the New
Mutants, she also sporadically appeared as a guest star in Uncanny
X-Men.

In Uncanny X-Men #303 (1993), she dies of the Legacy Virus. Other than
flashbacks and alternate realities, she was absent from regular
publication for most of the 1990s, though she does appear as a
time-traveler in New Mutants: Truth or Death #1-3 (1997). After being
resurrected by Belasco, she returned to regular publication in 2007, in
New X-Men #38-41 (2007), X-Infernus #1-4 (2009), X-Men: Hellbound
#1-3 (2010) and New Mutants (vol. 3) #1-29 (2009-2011). As a member of
Cyclops' Extinction Team, she appears in Uncanny X-Men (vol. 2) #1-20
(2012), Avengers vs. X-Men #1-12 (2012), AVX: Versus #3 (2012), and
AVX: Consequences #1-5 (2012). She appears in All-New X-Men,
Uncanny X-Men (vol. 3), and Extraordinary X-Men as a regular
character.


Fictional character biography

Illyana Rasputin (born Illyana Nikolievna Rasputina) was born in the
Ust-Ordynski Collective farm, near Lake Baikal, Siberia, Russian SFSR,
Soviet Union to Nikolai Rasputin and his wife Alexandra Natalya
Rasputina. Illyana's two older brothers, Mikhail Nikolaievitch Rasputin
and Colossus (Piotr "Peter" Nikolaievitch Rasputin) are also mutants.
Colossus' superhuman powers manifest while saving Illyana from a runaway
tractor.

[A transformed Illyana becomes a powerful sorceress and ruler of Limbo
in Magik (Illyana and Storm)_.] At six years old, Illyana is abducted
and brought to the United States by Arcade, who uses her and several
other hostages to coerce the X-Men into opposing Doctor Doom. She is
rescued and brought back to the X-Mansion.

Shortly thereafter, Illyana is called to the Limbo dimension by Belasco,
who seeks to bring forth the Elder Gods to rule Earth. She is raised
there, frequently bullied and tormented by Belasco's underling S'ym.
In order to free himself, Belasco needs to fill the Beatrix Medallion
with five bloodstones. The bloodstones are created by corrupting
Illyana's soul, with a new stone appearing as her corruption deepens.
She is rescued and tutored in the practice of white magic by that
dimension's version of Storm (who turned to magic when her mutant powers
waned). Finding the use of magic abhorrent, Limbo's version of
Shadowcat, known as Cat, kidnaps and trains Illyana in hand to hand and
sword combat. Cat, along with Illyana, storms Belasco's citadel. They
are overwhelmed by Belasco who further transforms Cat into a feline
demonic creature. With Illyana back under his control, Belasco
instructs her in the art of black magic in the hopes that it will
further corrupt her soul. However, Illyana plots Belasco's defeat and
continues to resist the dark influence on her soul. Illyana forms a
mystical bond between both Storm and Cat, who were also tutored by
Belasco.

Belasco succeeds in creating three parts of Illyana's bloodstone
pendant. Illyana creates the Soulsword and takes over Limbo as its new
ruler. While wielding the Soulsword she manifests horns, a tail and
fangs. She banishes Belasco from Limbo and claims S'ym as her
servant. She then returns to Earth a decade older, although no time has
passed on Earth since her kidnapping. She subsequently joins the New
Mutants.

Magik misguides one of her teleportation discs through the space-time
continuum and strands herself and Mirage in ancient Egypt. There,
Illyana meets Storm's ancestor Ashake, an Egyptian priestess. Together,
they defeat an evil sorcerer, Heka-Nut, who sought an ancient mystical
sword called the Sword of Bone using Magik's Soulsword. Ashake helps
Illyana and Mirage return to the present, with Mirage's memory of the
incident erased in the process.

A strange armor begins to appear on her body each time she wields the
Soulsword. The armor appears only on one of her shoulders and arms at
first, but appears on more of her body each time that she wields the
sword. Illyana's skill as a sorceress grows, and she battles other
beings with mystical powers such as Baba Yaga, the Enchantress,
Forge, Spiral, and Heka-Nut. A routine trip through Limbo
goes awry, leaving the New Mutants stuck in Limbo. To open an escape
route for her teammates, Illyana embraces her demonic nature and opens a
colossal teleportation disc between Earth and Limbo, which N'astirh
holds open, triggering an invasion of Earth by demons from Limbo.
Ashamed of herself, she flees into Limbo, and decides to end the demonic
invasion by assuming rule of Limbo. However, her teammate Rahne Sinclair
persuades her against this, and she instead gives up her demonic powers
by creating a massive stepping disc that banishes the demons back to
Limbo, then throws her Soulsword in after them to seal the portal shut.
Afterwards, the New Mutants find a seven-year-old Illyana inside the
husk of her eldritch armor. She still possesses the bloodstone
locket.

Because of the mystic bond she shares with the Shadowcat from the Limbo
dimension, the Soulsword passes on to Earth's Shadowcat in England. It
embeds itself in a stone near Excalibur's lighthouse headquarters,
waiting for Shadowcat to claim it and become its new wielder. After
a conflict with the necromancer Gravemoss, the Soulsword is acquired by
Amanda Sefton, who would claim Illyana's mantle as Magik, ruler of Limbo
and wielder of the Soulsword.

Illyana returns to Russia where she lives with her parents for some
months until they are murdered by the Russian government in order to
secure Illyana's abilities to defeat a psionic being known as the Soul
Skinner. Illyana then returns to the X-Mansion to live with her brother
and the other X-Men.

Not long afterwards, Illyana contracts the Legacy Virus, and dies in the
X-Mansion, despite all efforts to save her made by Charles Xavier and
Moira MacTaggert.

Illyana's spirit returns to Colossus, who had recently returned to
the United States with Shadowcat and Nightcrawler following the
disbanding of Excalibur. When investigating odd occurrences inside the
Mansion, Colossus locates one of the stepping disks that Illyana had
magically bound to the school. He is transported to a pocket world,
which holds a memory imprint of Illyana. Illyana's memory convinces him
to make one final sacrifice. When the cure for the Legacy Virus turned
out to need the death of one mutant, he secretly gave his life, so
nobody else would have to die like Illyana did. Colossus is later
resurrected by an alien race.

Belasco eventually deposes Amanda Sefton and, after seeing Illyana
reappear during the House of M and realizing he carries a torch for
her, creates a powerful spell to return her to him. The spell pulls
forth the remaining essence of Illyana still held within Limbo's
dimension, taking shape as the Darkchilde, the semi-demonic version of
Illyana corrupted and transformed by dark magic. Belasco is not
satisfied with his creation, claiming that it is not the true Illyana
Rasputin (due to her lack of Illyana's soul) and banishes her to the
outer parts of Limbo.

Illyana, now with her Darkchilde persona, discovers some of the teenage
New X-Men being attacked by a horde of demons. After aiding the mutants
against the demons, she uses a spell to immobilize them and steal a
portion of Pixie's soul, in the hopes of creating both a bloodstone and
a new Soulsword, as Illyana felt Pixie had the most innocent of souls
present. Anole breaks free from Illyana's confinement and dispatches
her. Pixie's soul extraction is partially successful however, creating
one part of a bloodstone pendant and a soul dagger. Illyana attempts to
complete the process and destroy those who wished to interfere, but
Rockslide thwarts her, and causes Illyana's human memories of her
friends and life among the X-Men to return to her.

Although only a part of Pixie's soul was taken, Pixie is now capable of
performing magic, the hole in her soul having been filled with black
magic. Since Belasco had sealed his castle from her own magic and
powers, Illyana teaches Pixie a teleportation spell, with which the New
X-Men attack and defeat Belasco.

Illyana succumbs to her Darkchilde persona and announces her desire to
create several more bloodstones in order to become god-like in power.
She is interrupted by the arrival of Colossus, investigating Illyana's
apparent return to life. A pained Illyana rejects her brother's offers
of help, and sends everyone back to Earth, before reclaiming Limbo's
throne and informing S'ym and N'astirh, now once more her servants, that
her next move is to reclaim her soul. Motivated by her friendship
with Shadowcat and love for Colossus, Illyana tries to reclaim her soul
through love and teleports to the Xavier Institute, only to find it
destroyed and abandoned.

[Cover art for X-Infernus #1. Magik as Darkchilde. Art by David
Finch.] While in Limbo, Illyana attacks various demons in her search for
the Bloodstone amulet. Her activities are noticed by Mephisto,
Blackheart, Satannish, Dormammu and Hela. Belasco's daughter, Witchfire
appears during the meeting and reveals she is the current owner of
Illyana's Bloodstone amulet and vows to take her father's place as ruler
of Limbo. Back at the X-Men's base in San Francisco, Pixie accidentally
discovers Magik's Soulsword is hidden inside Nightcrawler. Sensing its
presence, Illyana teleports in and reclaims her sword, transforming from
the Darkchilde into her Magik persona. She strikes Colossus when he
enters the Danger Room and calls out to her, realizing that something is
wrong when she does not feel any emotions, and returns to Limbo.
Witchfire has conquered Limbo and Magik's armies during her absence.
Claiming everything that Belasco ever owned, Witchfire captures Magik,
takes her bloodstone and adds it to the amulet.

The X-Men arrive at the castle; Nightcrawler finds Illyana chained to a
pillar. At her direction, he stabs her with Pixie's soul dagger,
re-releasing the Soulsword inside of her. Witchfire completes the set of
Bloodstones via another portion of Pixie's soul and releases the Elder
Gods. Illyana and the other mutants hold back Witchfire and the
Elder Gods. Using a combination of magic and the powers of the Soulsword
and Souldagger, Illyana and Pixie remove one of Pixie's bloodstones. The
Elder Gods are swept back to their dimension, along with Witchfire and
the remaining bloodstones. Pixie's Souldagger merges with the bloodstone
that was pried loose by Ilyana. Saddened by the loss of her and Pixie's
remaining bloodstones, Illyana teleports the mutants back to the X-Base,
and they convince her to stay with them.

However, the younger mutants are still very distrustful of her. Illyana
seems to have undergone a personality change since her return from the
future, becoming more detached emotionally in most cases, possibly due
to the further loss of most of her soul.

Later, Cyclops sends Illyana to team up (unknowingly) with X-Force to
locate Wolverine and teleport them to Alcatraz to rescue any mutants
taken prisoner by Norman Osborn's forces. Along with Pixie, they
teleport all the X-Men from San Francisco to their new home, Utopia.

When Hope Summers and Cable return to the present during the X-Men:
Second Coming storyline, Bastion begins eliminating all mutant
teleporters to trap the mutant population on Utopia. While trying to
bring Hope and Cable to Utopia, Illyana is fired upon by one of the
Purifiers with a supernatural weapon that opens a portal to Limbo that
she cannot control; she is drawn into the portal by a cluster of demonic
tentacles. She is eventually freed from her restraints by Pixie, and
Illyana and her rescue team return to Earth.

In a reversal of fortune, Pixie is kidnapped by Project Purgatory, and
Magik returns to Limbo with the New Mutants in order to rescue her.
While in Limbo, the New Mutants encounter the Inferno Babies - mutants
who were taken as infants by the government and raised and trained in
Limbo. This now-adult team attacks and overwhelms the New Mutants.
While the rest of the team is captured, Magik escapes to Earth with
Karma and Pixie. After hiding the Soulsword inside Karma, Magik
teleports the rest of the X-Men to Portal Epsilon, Project Purgatory's
gateway to Limbo, for what the X-Men believe to be a rescue mission.
They arrive just as Limbo's Elder Gods breach the gateway to Earth.
Karma releases Legion's mind with the soulsword, freeing him to use his
powers to destroy the Elder Gods and return the bloodstones belonging to
Magik and Pixie, thus restoring their souls. Confronted by Cyclops
afterward, Magik admits to putting the world in danger and manipulating
the X-Men for the sake of a personal vendetta against the Elder Gods.
Cyclops decides that she must be restrained. While she remains
unrepentant, she accepts his decision.

Magik is placed in the X-Brig 2, a newly constructed, ultra-high
security prison 500 ft. below sea level. She is controlled by devices
that detect and prevent the use of teleportation and magic. During a
visit Magik accepts the blame for her incarceration when Colossus tries
to comfort her. Magik is temporarily released by Colossus and Kitty in
order to get her help in defeating Juggernaut.

Following the events of Schism, Magik is selected to be a member of
Cyclops' "Extinction Team." Despite this status, she remains a
prisoner. She is only released from the X-Brig for missions, and while
in the field, her suit contains lethal fail-safes that prevent her
escape.

Illyana is chosen as one of the "Phoenix Five," a group of X-Men granted
additional powers by the Phoenix Force. After Ms.  is defeated
by Rogue, Magik appears and gags the Avenger before teleporting her into
Limbo, trapping her and terrifying Rogue. Following the defeat of
Cyclops, Magik and the other former members of the Phoenix Five are
reported to have gone on the run. Magik joins Cyclops team of X-Men
at the New Xavier School at the old Weapon X facility. The Phoenix
has damaged Magik's powers, like it did to the other five; Illyana
initially thinks her ability to channel increased energies from Limbo is
a power upgrade, but Dormmamu pulls her into Limbo, and demonstrates
that her newfound ability to effortlessly summon Limbo energies is
destroying Limbo. Dormmamu later pulls the entire Uncanny team into
Limbo, intending to kill them in front of Magik before he kills her.
They fight back and Illyana absorbs all of Limbo's mystic energy,
causing it and its creatures to disappear. She sends the X-Men back
to earth, and travels back through time to become the protégé of a past
version of Dr. Strange, explaining that she needs a greater
understanding of magic, so as to better control her mutant powers.


Powers and abilities

[Cover to New Mutants #50, featuring Magik wielding her Soulsword.
Pencils by Rick Leonardi, inks by Dan Green.]

Teleportation

Magik has the mutant ability to teleport herself and others through time
and space from one location to another. She initially did this by
summoning what she calls "stepping discs," which were part of a
dimension known as Limbo. When Illyana called for a stepping disc she
had to use Limbo as a midway point before she could teleport to an
alternate location. Magik has succeeded in teleporting herself across
continents, from one continent to another, and even interplanetary and
intergalactic distances on occasion.

Unlike most teleporters in the  Universe, Magik can teleport
through time as well as space. She has teleported moments, days or
centuries into the past or future. Especially early on, she had
difficulty modulating this ability and would often inadvertently travel
through time and space when intending to teleport only through
space. The greater the distance over which she teleported, the
greater the possible margin of error in terms of her arriving at the
point of time she intended.

After Illyana absorbed all of Limbo, the stepping discs ceased to exist;
now when Illyana teleports ethereal images of ghosts, dragons, or other
supernatural creatures appear.

Sorcery

Magik was the sorceress supreme of her Limbo dimension.

In Limbo, Magik was able to cast any magic spell that Belasco could,
having had access to his store of sorcerous knowledge. Her sorcery was a
unique mix of black magic that she learned from Belasco and white magic
she was taught by an alternative-reality Ororo Munroe.

On Earth her magic was limited to astral projection, sensing mystical
presences, scrying, and casting very simple spells. In X-Infernus, she
uses magic of a seemingly greater strength than she could previously use
in Earth's dimension. Since absorbing Limbo and becoming Dr.
Strange's disciple Illyana's magic on Earth has been considerably
stronger, such as when she used spells she learned from Dr. Strange to
destroy advanced Sentinels.

Eldritch armor

[Illyana, willing most of her armor to appear. Art by Bret Blevins.] The
more that Magik uses her magical power, the more mystical armor appears
on her body in addition to demonic features such as horns and hooves.
The armor deflects or limits attacks, both physical and magical.
Illyana's armor also provides protection from the Transmode Virus.

Soulsword

The Soulsword was created by Illyana Rasputin during her imprisonment in
Limbo. Illyana magically caused her own life force energy to manifest
before her. Once this happened she cast her hand into a pool of eldritch
energy and imagined a weapon in her mind. When she withdrew her hand she
was holding the Soulsword, created from her own soul. A simple
looking blade upon its origin, it develops intricate designs and forms
upon itself the more Illyana uses it, becoming more powerful with each
use.

Magik's Soulsword disrupts magic energies, constructs and creatures. It
also augments the power level of any magic user who holds it. The
Soulsword generally has no physical effect, but disrupts even the most
powerful magic as it passes through. Since Illyana's resurrection, the
Soulsword seems to affect psychic beings like Legion's
personalities, whereas in the past the sword only affected magical
creatures and spells. The only exception to this has been Kitty Pryde,
who can still be cut by the Soulsword even when Pryde is using her
phasing power to become intangible. Illyana can make her Soulsword
appear and vanish at will. After Avengers vs. X-Men, Illyana has
used her Soulsword against physical beings, including a Sentinel.

Other abilities

Illyana has formidable psionic shields, which block anyone from reading
her mind, even such powerful telepaths as Professor X, the Shadow
King, and Rachel Summers. Since her revival, Illyana is able to
lower her psionic shields.

Due to Belasco creating the magical bloodstones with their souls,
Illyana has a psychic bond with X-Man Kitty Pryde. Because of this,
a similar connection could be considered between Illyana and Storm.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

In the Age of Apocalypse timeline, after Apocalypse's attacks on
Russia, she is taken to the slave camp known as the Core located in
Seattle, which provides energy for Apocalypse's empire. Colossus,
Shadowcat and Generation NeXt rescue her, at the cost of the lives of
every single member of Generation NeXt. Illyana then helps Bishop go
back in time to prevent the Age of Apocalypse from occurring in the
mainstream Earth-616 timeline. In the 2000 Blink limited series,
it is revealed via flashback that Sugar Man was at one point the abusive
jailer in charge of cellmates Illyana Rasputin and Blink (before she was
rescued as a young girl by Weapon-X and Sabretooth) in a prison
facility.

Excalibur

During Excalibur's "Cross-Time Caper" storyline, the team encounters a
childlike version of Illyana, clothed in the regalia of Dr. Strange, who
runs an organized crime cartel in partnership with her friend Shadowcat.
When Alistaire Stuart and a near comatose Rachel Summers are threatened
by the authorities, Illyana grants them sanctuary; however, she merely
intends to use her guests in a bid for dominance over the world. When
the authorities once more attempt to search Illyana's apartment, an
altercation occurs and she is shot dead but merely resurrects into her
fully demonic form. That world's Captain Britain and Psylocke arrive on
the scene to help stop Illyana. Psylocke psychically restores Phoenix,
who performs an exorcism on Illyana and restores her to her human
state.

Exiles

Illyana from Earth-4210 is also a member of The Exiles. Illyana replaces
Blink when the Timebroker sends her home. She is led to believe that had
she not become an Exile, she would murder her family. This universe's
Magik is much more temperamental and ruthless than the Earth-616 Magik
and clashes with the team from the beginning. Shortly after the
Timebroker returns Blink to the team, he decrees that half the members
of the combined Exiles and Weapon X group have to die. Fearing for her
life, Magik tries to join King Hyperion and tells him of the mission
Exiles and Weapon X were given. In order to corroborate her claims,
Hyperion snaps Magik's neck to see if a replacement Exile is sent.

House of M

Not a true alternate earth as such, House of M is a temporary recreation
of Earth-616 by the Scarlet Witch in which mutants are dominant on
Earth. Magik is a member of a S.H.I.E.L.D. squadron of young mutants
called the Hellions. Like most of the other Hellions, she eventually
joins the side of the New Mutants, a team being groomed as future
leaders, in fighting the establishment of the House of M in Japan. This
version of Magik teleports to Limbo before the Scarlet Witch restores
reality to its former state. This results in Belasco's resurrection
of Illyana in Earth-616. In this reality, she can speak Japanese.

Shattershot

In the Shattershot crossover, a reality was shown in which Illyana was
regressed in the same way as in Earth-616 but never succumbs to the
Legacy Virus. She grows up to master her mutant and mystical powers,
calls herself Darkchild and joins X-Force alongside Sunspot and
Cannonball.

Other

In another reality in which Illyana is an adult, her son is trapped in
an incorporeal form. She makes a deal with Mephisto to provide him with
a body, at the cost of all mutants' lives, but her son ultimately
rejects the offer.

What If?

In "What If? the X-Men Had Stayed In Asgard?" Illyana is one of the New
Mutants who chooses to remain in the Realm Eternal. She eventually
replaces the Enchantress as Asgard's supreme sorceress and assumes a
secondary role as liaison between her teammate Danielle Moonstar, the
new ruler of Hel, and Asgard.

In a 2006 issue of What If...?_, Magik is a member of a Soviet version
of the Fantastic Four known as "The Ultimate Federalist Freedom
Fighters."


In other media

Television

-   Illyana appears in "Red Dawn" (1993), an episode of the animated
    television series X-Men. She and her mother remain by Colossus and
    the X-Men as they fought the newly released Omega Red. She also
    appears in one of Cable's visions of the altered time-stream in
    "Time Fugitives" (1993), in which, without the antibodies developed
    to fight Apocalypse's techno-organic virus, many mutants
    (like Illyana) developed harmful mutations which would eventually
    kill them.
-   Illyana is mentioned in X-Men: Evolution as a hostage of Magneto
    in order to make Colossus work for him.
-   At Comic Con 2009, Magik was one of several character design
    sketches shown for the 2nd season of Wolverine and the X-Men.
    The second season was ultimately unproduced due to financial
    disputes.

Video games

-   Illyana appeared as a non-playable character in the video game
    X-Men Legends voiced by Jeannie Elias. She was psychically
    kidnapped by the Shadow King in order to lure Xavier onto the astral
    plane.
-   Magik appears as an unlockable character in the Facebook game
    : Avengers Alliance.
-   Magik appears as a playable character, NPC and Team-up in the MMO
     Heroes, voiced by Tara Strong.
-   Magik appears as a playable character in the video game 
    Contest of Champions.

