MAGNUS (MAGNUS LEHNSHERR) is a fictional character who appears in the
comic books published by . He is the son of an
alternate-universe version of Magneto and Rogue. Created by Judd Winick
and Mike McKone, this version first appeared in Exiles #1.


Fictional character biography

Magnus is the son of Magneto and Rogue from an alternate universe, this
Magneto having given up his war on mankind. Magnus was born with powers
similar to his father's, except with a twist: like his mother, Magnus'
touch was lethal, turning anyone who touched his skin into metal.

One day, Magnus found himself in the middle of a barren desert alongside
five other X-Men from five different realities. They were greeted by the
Timebroker, a construct of their collective consciousness, who explained
to them that they had all become unhinged from time as a chain of events
had caused their realities as they knew them to change. New events in
his past caused him to accidentally kill his mother a week after his
thirteenth birthday by turning her into steel. His father never
recovered from the loss and resumed his battle on humanity. In order to
return to their correct timelines, they would have to repair other
realities that caused the ripple effect that disrupted their reality or
they would return to their alternate existences.

On the Exiles' first mission the Tallus instructs Blink to, "find your
greatest teacher." The rest of the team decided that the Tallus could
only mean their mentor, Professor Charles Xavier. Magnus constructed a
makeshift Cerebro and utilized his powers in conjunction with Nocturne's
latent and Mimic's residual psychic powers to locate Charles Xavier in a
holding facility somewhere in Nevada.

While the other Exiles distracted the guards, Blink teleported Magnus
inside the prison where he used his powers to seemingly melt away
Xavier's metal shackles. In a wicked turn of events, this Xavier has
been marred by his imprisonment at the hands of the humans and would
sooner die than help create a society where mutants and humans lived
together in harmony. He knocks the Exiles out with a Psi-Blast and
leaves them for dead. The Exiles later learned that the great "teacher"
that they should have sought was actually Magneto. This causes Magnus to
feel ashamed for not considering his father as a viable option. At this
point, the Exiles split with half of the team off to find Magneto and
the other half left to put a halt to Xavier's mayhem.

Magnus carried Blink and Nocturne to the prison where Magneto is being
held. There he intercepted a radio relay that the place is rigged with
an atomic bomb. Seeing no other timely resolve, he forced all the
captives away to a nearby beach and, using the utmost of his powers to
encase the explosion, sacrificed himself so that others may live.

Months later, when Blink and the other Exiles took over Panoptichron and
emptied the stasis' gallery where Magnus' body was held, they sent him
home to his parents, now both alive and together again, with a note
saying that he died a hero.


Powers and abilities

Magnus could control electromagnetic energies (i.e. electrons, photons,
etc.), allowing a wide variety of different effects (including flight,
energy blasts, and force fields). His powers are similar to Magneto with
the potential of being even stronger. His forcefield must be stronger
than Magneto's because he held back an atomic explosion in his dying
moments. Using a scientific genius that may also have been inherited
from his father, Magnus has cobbled complex Cerebro machines from
ambient iron from memory and in a matter of seconds.

Flesh-to-flesh contact with Magnus is lethal, transforming other beings
into solid steel.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

Magneto and Rogue also have a child in the alternate timeline of X-Men,
The Age of Apocalypse. Unlike Magnus, who was named after his father,
the child in this reality was CHARLES LEHNSHERR, named after Magneto's
deceased friend Charles Xavier. In this reality, Charles was cared for
by Nanny. This Nanny was equipped with retractable offensive weaponry
and a defensive capability that let her envelop Charles in a protective
cocoon formed from her own body mass; her primary function was to
protect the child above all else. She was destroyed while performing
this function, and failed to prevent Charles' abduction by agents of
Apocalypse. He is rescued by X-Men who raid Apocalypse's citadel in a
desperate final attempt to save all of reality from M'Kraan
crystallization.

