MAINFRAME is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by . He appeared in the series A-Next.


Fictional character biography

When Iron Man decided to retire from the hero business, he did not want
to let his legacy end with him, so he designed an android patterned
after his Iron Man armor. He called his robotic warrior Mainframe.
Mainframe was brought online when Trolls attacked a young boy named
Kevin Masterson. Mainframe assembled all of the reserve Avengers and
fought to save him. When the fight was over, Mainframe, Stinger, J2, and
Kevin (who had become the new Thunderstrike) formed A-Next, a new team
of Avengers.

Right away, Mainframe attempted to establish himself as team leader. He
frequently encountered resistance from Stinger (who did not know that
Mainframe was a robotic lifeform). But when Mainframe was terminally
damaged, exposing his secret, Stinger was one of the first to volunteer
to shrink inside him (with the help of her father Ant-Man) to repair
him. Later they learned that whenever Mainframe was severely injured, he
would upload his personality and memories into a replacement body
assembled on an orbiting satellite.

Mainframe soon became more than just a high-tech hero to his teammates,
he became a friend. He even learned to share his duties as leader with
his teammate American Dream.


Powers and abilities

Mainframe's robotic body is superhumanly strong, and has jet boosters
that allow him to fly. He is equipped with a high-tech sensor array, as
well as various energy weapons (lasers, magnetic beams, electric blasts,
etc.). He also has projectile weaponry, such as grenades and missiles.

Mainframe's most valuable item is a tiny beacon that, when he is damaged
beyond repair or destroyed, sends a signal to a Stark Enterprises
satellite and uploads his consciousness into one of the replacement
bodies stored there. With the recent destruction of that satellite, it
remains to be seen what Mainframe will do.


In other media

-   Mainframe appears in the Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H._ episode
    "Wheels of Fury," voiced by Jeffrey Combs. This version is a
    gaming A.I. that was created by Iron Man who gained a personality of
    his own and wanted to destroy the city. The Agents of S.M.A.S.H. and
    Iron Man had to go up against Mainframe's robots in a roller derby.
    After the Agents of S.M.A.S.H. and Iron Man defeat Mainframe's
    robots, Mainframe is persuaded not to attack the city. Mainframe
    creates a new body from one of the robots (which gained an
    appearance resembling Mainframe's A-Next appearance) and leaves to
    see the world. In the episode "Planet Monster" Pt. 2, Mainframe is
    among those who help the Agents of S.M.A.S.H. and the Avengers fight
    the forces of the Supreme Intelligence.

