MAJOR MAPLELEAF is the name of two fictional superheroes appearing in
books published by , primarily in the series Alpha
Flight, both of whom were created by writer Scott Lobdell.


Major Mapleleaf (Louis Sadler)

LOUIS SADLER is the name of the first Major Mapleleaf. He first appeared
in Alpha Flight vol. 1'' #106.

Fictional character biography

LOUIS SADLER was a Canadian superhero during World War II and the
occasional ally of the Invaders in their battles against Hitler and the
Nazis. He gained his powers through an unrevealed process which appears
to have affected his aging process. After the war, he went
underground in his crimefighting and eventually revealed his public
identity in 1963 to devote time to raising his son, Michael, his
proudest achievement.  After Michael's death from A.I.D.S. he sank
into a depression. Later, when the news was making a cause celebre out
of a baby with HIV, he went on a rampage, believing society did not care
about Michael's fate due to his homosexuality. He was stopped by
Northstar of Alpha Flight, who came out as gay himself during their
battle.


Major Mapleleaf (Lou Sadler Jr.)

LOUIS "LOU" SADLER, JR., the younger son of the original Major
Mapleleaf, assumed the mantle of Major Mapleleaf. Lou first appeared in
Alpha Flight vol. 3 #1.

Fictional character biography

Louis "Lou" Sadler, Jr. is secretly a normal human with no superpowers
who just rides a super-powered horse named Thunder.

Bearing the rank of Staff Sergeant in the Royal Canadian Mounted Police,
Sadler took the code name of Major Mapleleaf out of respect for his
father. Lou reportedly had an abusive relationship with his father, who
beat him; blaming him for the death of his mother. Lou, who speaks very
positively of his father, denies the abuse.

Sadler was recruited by Sasquatch as one of the new members of the Alpha
Flight team when the original team was kidnapped by aliens. 

Along with Guardian, both incarnations of Puck, Vindicator, and Shaman,
Major Mapleleaf was among the Alpha Flight members killed by The
Collective.

