The MAN-THING (DR. THEODORE "TED" SALLIS) is a fictional monster
appearing in American comic books published by . Created by
writers Stan Lee, Roy Thomas, and Gerry Conway and artist Gray Morrow,
the character first appeared in Savage Tales #1 (May 1971), and went
on to be featured in various titles and in his own series, including
Adventure into Fear, which introduced the character Howard the Duck.

Steve Gerber's 39-issue run on the series is a cult classic that was
influential on such writers as Neil Gaiman.

Man-Thing is a large, slow-moving, empathic, humanoid creature living in
the Florida Everglades near the Seminole reservation and the fictitious
town of Citrusville. Mark Stevens portrays the character in the 2005
live-action film Man-Thing.


Publication history

As described in the text featurette "The Story Behind the Scenes" in
Savage Tales #1 (cover-dated May 1971), the black-and-white adventure
fantasy magazine in which the character debuted in an 11-page origin
story, Man-Thing was conceived in discussions between 
editor Stan Lee and writer Roy Thomas, and that together they created
five possible origins. Lee provided the name, which had previously been
used for unrelated creatures in 's early science-fiction/fantasy
anthology Tales of Suspense #7 (Jan. 1960) and #81 (Sept. 1966),
as well as the concept of the man losing sentience.

As Thomas recalled in 2002:

Thomas worked out a detailed plot and gave it to Gerry Conway to
script. Thomas and Conway are credited as writers, with Gray Morrow as
artist. A second story, written by Len Wein and drawn by Neal Adams, was
prepared at that time, but, upon Savage Tales' cancellation after that
single issue, "took a year or two to see print", according to
Thomas. That occurred in Astonishing Tales #12 (June 1972), in
which the seven-page story was integrated in its entirety within the
21-page feature "Ka-Zar", starring 's jungle-lord hero. This
black-and-white interlude (with yellow highlighting) segued to
Man-Thing's introduction to color comics as Ka-Zar's
antagonist-turned-ally in this and the following issue (both written by
Thomas, with the first penciled by John Buscema and the second by
Buscema and Rich Buckler).

The Wein-written Man-Thing story appeared in-between Wein's first and
second version of his  character Swamp Thing. Wein was
Conway's roommate at the time, and as Thomas recalled in 2008,

Man-Thing received his own 10-page feature, again by Conway (with Morrow
inking pencils by Howard Chaykin), in Adventure into Fear #10 (Oct.
1972), sharing that anthological title with reprinted 1950s
horror/fantasy stories. Steve Gerber, who would become Man-Thing's
signature writer, succeeded Conway the following issue, with art by Rich
Buckler (Mayerik began with issue #13). The feature expanded to 15 pages
with #12 (art by Jim Starlin), became 16 pages two issues later, and
reached the then-standard 19-page length of  superhero comics with
issue #15, at which point the series also went from bi-monthly to
monthly. In Fear #11 (Dec. 1972), page 11, Gerber created the series'
narrative tagline, used in captions: "Whatever knows fear burns at the
Man-Thing's touch!"

After issue #19 (Dec.1973), Man-Thing received a solo title The
Man-Thing, which ran 22 issues (Jan. 1974 - Oct. 1975). Following
Morrow, the main series' primary pencillers were, successively, Val
Mayerik, Mike Ploog, John Buscema, and Jim Mooney. A sister publication
was the larger, quarterly Giant-Size Man-Thing #1-5 (August 1974 -
August 1975), which featured 1950s horror-fantasy and 1960s science
fiction/monster reprints as back-up stories, with a Howard the Duck
feature added in the final two issues. The unintentional double entendre
in the sister series' title became a joke among comics readers.

In the final issue, writer Gerber appeared as a character in the story,
claiming he had not been inventing the Man-Thing's adventures but simply
reporting on them and that he had decided to move on. Gerber continued
to write Man-Thing guest appearances in other  titles, as well as
the serialized, eight-page Man-Thing feature in the omnibus series
 Presents #1-12 (Sept. 1988 - Feb. 1989), and a
supporting role in The Evolutionary War, coming to the aid of
Spider-Man. Gerber also wrote a graphic novel that Kevin Nowlan
spent many years illustrating, but he did not live to see it
published.

A second Man-Thing series ran 11 issues (Nov. 1979 - Jan. 1981).
Writer Michael Fleisher and penciller Mooney teamed for the first three
issues, with the letters page of #3 noting that Fleisher's work had
received a great deal of negative criticism and that he had been taken
off the book. He was succeeded by, primarily, writer Chris Claremont and
illustrators Don Perlin (breakdowns) and Bob Wiacek (finished pencils).
Claremont's stories introduced Man-Thing and Jennifer Kale to Doctor
Strange (whose series he was concurrently writing), after which his
material focused on two new supporting characters: John Daltry,
Citrusville's new sheriff, and Bobbie Bannister, a formerly wealthy girl
who is the only survivor when her parents' yacht is attacked. These
characters' stories he resolved by tying them to a resolution for his
own War Is Hell series.

Black and white Man-Thing stories, and some covers, also appeared in the
 magazine Monsters Unleashed as well.

Simon Jowett provided a Man-Thing story in  Presents
#164-168 (Early Oct.-Late Nov. 1994). The story was set soon after
Sallis' transformation, yet depicted Sallis using a standard personal
computer with up-to-date graphics rather than hard-copy files, an
example of the floating timeline effect.

J.M. DeMatteis began writing the character in a backup story in
Man-Thing vol. 2, #9 (March 1981), which opened with a fill-in by
Dickie McKenzie. DeMatteis would go on to write Man-Thing stories in
 Team-Up, The Defenders,  Fanfare, and the limited
series Daydreamers, as well as the eight-issue Man-Thing vol. 3
(Dec. 1997 - July 1998), illustrated by Liam Sharp. The two would
re-team for the Man-Thing feature in the two-issue Strange Tales vol.
4 (Sept.-Oct. 1998). Four issues were written, but #3 and 4 were never
published. Their stories were summarized briefly in Peter Parker:
Spider-Man Annual '99, also by DeMatteis, with art by Sharp and
others.

In the 2000s, Man-Thing has starred in a handful of stories appearing in
one-shots and limited series, including  Knights Double Shot #2
(July 2002) by Ted McKeever, and Legion of Monsters: Man-Thing #1 (May
2007) by Charlie Huston and Klaus Janson.

In 2008, writer Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa retold Man-Thing's origin in
Dead of Night Featuring Man-Thing #1-4 (April–July 2008), from the
 MAX imprint. This was followed by an eight-page story in
 Presents vol. 2, #12 (Oct. 2008), by writer Jai Nitz and
artist Ben Stenbeck.

Man-Thing appeared regularly during The Punisher's Franken-Castle
story arc and became a regular member of Thunderbolts with issue #144.
The series was retitled Dark Avengers with #175, and Man-Thing
continued to appear as a regular character until issue #183. Steve
Gerber's posthumous Man-Thing story The Screenplay of the Living Dead
Man, with art by Kevin Nowlan, originally planned as a 1980s graphic
novel before being left uncompleted by the artist, was revived in
the 2010s and appeared as a three-issue miniseries cover-titled The
Infernal Man-Thing (Early Sept.-Oct. 2012). The story was a sequel
to Gerber's “Song-Cry of the Living Dead Man” in Man-Thing #12 (Dec.
1974).


Fictional character biography

Young biochemist DR. THEODORE "TED" SALLIS, a native of Omaha,
Nebraska, is working in the Everglades as part of Dr. Wilma Calvin's
Project: Gladiator team, which includes Dr. Barbara Morse and her fiancé
Dr. Paul Allen. A Dr. Wendell is later cited as being on the staff after
Dr. Calvin is shot. The group is attempting to recreate the
"Super-Soldier Serum" that had created Captain America. Web of
Spider-Man vol. 2, #6 revealed that Sallis at one point treated and
worked alongside Dr. Curt Connors shortly after Connors' arm was
amputated, driving the research that would eventually transform Connors
into the Lizard.

Though warned that the technological terrorist group Advanced Idea
Mechanics (AIM) has been operating in the area, Sallis breaches security
by bringing with him his lover, Ellen Brandt (referred to here as "Miss
Brandt", but later retconned to be his wife). He destroys his notes to
his formula, which he has memorized. Later, he is ambushed and learns
Brandt has betrayed him. Fleeing with the only sample of his serum, he
injects himself with it in hopes of saving himself. However, he crashes
his car into the swamp where chemical and, as Man-Thing #1 later
explained, magical forces instantly transform him into a slow-moving
plant-matter creature with large, solid red eyes, Unable to speak,
and with dim memories, he attacks the ambushers and Brandt, burning and
scarring part of her face with an acid he now secretes in the presence
of violent emotions. The Man-Thing then wanders away into the swamp.

Sallis' mind was apparently extinguished, although on rare occasions he
could briefly return to consciousness within his monstrous form, as in
Doctor Strange vol. 2, #41 (June 1980) and Peter Parker: Spider-Man
Annual '99, and even to his human form, as in Adventure into Fear #13
(April 1973),  Two-in-One #1 (Jan. 1974), 
Presents #164 (Oct. 1994), and Man-Thing vol. 3, #5, 7, 8 (April,
June–July 1998).

Under writer Steve Gerber, the Man-Thing encounters the sorceress
Jennifer Kale, with whom he briefly shared a psychic link and who knew
his true identity, in a story arc in Fear #11-13 — the final issue of
which established that the swamp had mystical properties as the Nexus of
All Realities. Through an interdimensional portal in Fear #19, he
meets Howard the Duck, who becomes stranded in this reality. Man-Thing
became the guardian of the nexus, and found himself facing demons,
ghosts, and time-traveling warriors, while continuing to encounter such
non-supernatural antagonists as rapacious land developers, fascist
vigilantes, and common criminals. He formed a bond with young radio DJ
Richard Rory and nurse Ruth Hart. Issue #12's "Song-Cry of the Living
Dead Man", about institutionalized writer named Brian Lazarus, spawned
Gerber's posthumously published 2012 sequel, "The Screenplay of the
Living Dead Man", in three-issue miniseries The Infernal Man-Thing.

In Man-Thing vol. 2 (Nov. 1979 - July 1981), writer Chris Claremont
introduced himself as a character in the final issue, as Gerber had in
the finale of the first series. Additionally, Claremont temporarily
became the Man-Thing after being stabbed to death. His and other
characters' deaths were later resolved with the intervention of the War
Is Hell series lead, John Kowalski, now an aspect of '
manifestation of Death. In vol. 3 (Dec. 1997 - July 1998), Ellen Brandt
Sallis returns to the Citrusville area, still half-scarred from the
Man-Thing's touch. (The existence of the scars contradicts the story in
Monsters Unleashed #5 in which her second husband, Leonard, a plastic
surgeon, fixes her.) The Nexus of All Realities has shattered and the
Man-Thing must reassemble the pieces with Ellen as his guide. In issue
#4, they encounter a little boy, Job Burke, who is actually the Sallis'
son, who had been put up for adoption. Following this series, the story
continued in Strange Tales vol. 4, #2, and was projected to continue
in the unpublished issues #3-4. Summaries based on DeMatteis'
unillustrated scripts appear on the K'Ad-mon and Ellen Brandt pages on
Appendix to the Handbook of the  Universe. The Sallises
eventually save the multiverse by merging fully with the Nexus.

During the Civil War storyline, two S.H.I.E.L.D. agents are sent to
the Everglades to register the Man-Thing with the Superhuman
Registration Act. As the Man-Thing is mentally unfit to sign documents,
this is actually a cover for a corrupt S.H.I.E.L.D. boss to take out one
disreputable member and put another in his place while he retires on
stolen gold. The attempt to destroy Man-Thing fails.

Captain America, operating as Captain Steve Rogers, has the Man-Thing
serve as the transportation for the titular team of supervillains
attempting to reform. Later, after traveling to the beginning of time
and being exposed to the primordial waters, his physical form is
restored, and he is now able to speak the Universal Language, which is
heard in a comprehensible form by all who hear him.

During the Fear Itself storyline, Man-Thing goes on a destructive
rampage, due to the fear and chaos that he senses on the citizens. He
battles the Fearsome Four, formed by She-Hulk, Howard the Duck,
Nighthawk and Frankenstein's Monster, who were attempting to stop his
rampage. They later discover a plot by Psycho-Man to use Man-Thing's
volatile empathy to create a weapon.

Phil Coulson later recruited Man-Thing to join his incarnation of the
Howling Commandos. As part of the All-New, All-Different 
branding, Man-Thing appears as a member of S.T.A.K.E.'s Howling
Commandos.


Powers and abilities

Man-Thing is a former scientist who was transformed into a creature
composed of vegetable matter through the synergistic interaction of
mystical energy and swamp mutagens. Though the beast now lacks a normal
human intellect and has shed any desire to communicate with human
society, it nevertheless often becomes an accidental hero as it stumbles
upon various crime and horror scenarios.

In the pages of The Thunderbolts, Dr. Henry Pym has expressed the view
that the Man-Thing is sentient, though difficult to communicate
with. For example, he once rescued an infant and left the child with
a doctor (which would require an understanding of the function of a
doctor and the ability to navigate to a specific address). He is
shown to understand concepts such as how to ring a doorbell, how to
put an arm in a sling, and even how to flip an auto-destruct
switch. The change in Man-Thing's intellect can partly be explained
by fact that its brain, sensory organs, and central nervous system are
now organized in a completely different fashion than a human; for
instance, Man-Thing's auditory receptors are in his forehead.
Regardless of what level of humanity the creature still possesses, it
can discern when a person's motivations are evil, which causes it pain
and motivates it to lash out.

The Man-Thing possesses a variety of superhuman powers, described below,
that are derived from the interaction of the scientific formula created
by Ted Sallis and the mystical energies of the Nexus of Realities.

It is able to sense human emotions, and is enraged by fear and
automatically secretes a poisonous chemical; anyone feeling fear and
clutched by the Man-Thing is prone to be burned (either chemically or
mystically), hence the series' tag-line, "Whatever knows fear burns at
the touch of the Man-Thing." Though fear is understandably most people's
response to the creature, both for his monstrous appearance and the
physical danger of his touch, typically only villains end up meeting an
immolating death at its hands. Many survive being burned, notably Ellen
Brandt, Kurt "Nightcrawler" Wagner, whom he does not even
scar, and Mongu, whose hand he permanently attaches to his axe,
either due to intervention or dissipation. Unusual psychic and mystical
forces react in what passes as the "brain" cells located throughout his
body. These unique forces render the Man-Thing extremely sensitive to
emotions. Emotions that are mild and generally considered positive
arouse curiosity and the Man-Thing will sometimes observe from a
distance. However, emotions that are often viewed as negative, such as
violent emotions, rage, anger, hatred, and fear, cause the Man-Thing
great discomfort and might provoke him to attack. Once provoked into
violent actions, his body secretes highly concentrated acid that can
burn human beings to ashes within a matter of seconds. Even individuals
that have high levels of superhuman durability have proven unable to
withstand this potent acid. While the Man-Thing is devoid of violent
emotions, his body produces a type of foamy, soapy mucus that
neutralizes the acid.

Although Man-Thing's superhuman strength, speed, intelligence,
durability, immortality, give the monster powers it is his spiritual
ability that makes him immune to any other disease, it has been
established that the creature possesses physical stamina beyond the
limitations of any human athlete. Initially, the Man-Thing is only
slightly stronger than Captain America, but in later appearances, the
Man-Thing possesses sufficient superhuman weight to stand toe to toe
with much stronger villains. He is able to lift a 2,000 pound automobile
when sufficiently moved to do so.

The Man-Thing's body is practically invulnerable to harm. Because his
body is not entirely solid, but composed of the muck and vegetative
matter of the swamp, fists, bullets, knives, energy blasts, etc. will
either pass entirely through him or will harmlessly be lodged within his
body. Even if a vast portion of the Man-Thing's body were to be ripped
away or incinerated, he would be able to reorganize himself by drawing
the necessary material from the surrounding vegetation. Devil-Slayer
once sliced him nearly in half, and he has survived being
incinerated by a Celestial, although his healing from the latter has
been the longest and most complex in his lifetime.

Due to the construction of his body, the Man-Thing is able to ooze his
body through openings or around barriers that would seem too small for
him to pass though. The smaller the opening, the longer it will take for
him to reorganize his mass upon reaching the other side. This
ability, can be defeated mystically.

The Man-Thing was once dependent upon the swamp he inhabits for his
continued survival; his body would slowly weaken and eventually lapse
into dormancy if not returned to the swamp or would be greatly damaged
if exposed to clean water. His exposure to the Citrusville waste
treatment plant greatly enhanced his ability to leave the swamp, as
he became a self-contained ecosystem, feeding off his own waste
products. He generally leaves the swamp of his own accord only if he
senses a mystical disturbance. Man-Thing has also demonstrated himself
susceptible to possession by other entities.

Although the Man-Thing lacks a normal human intellect, in its life as
Ted Sallis, it possessed a Ph.D. in biochemistry. Sallis is legally
dead, but his identity is known to numerous living people, including
Wilma Calvin, Ellen Brandt, Stephen Strange, Owen Reece, Ben Grimm,
Thog, and Jennifer Kale, and anyone they may have told. His identity as
Man-Thing could not be considered secret, but his existence is generally
believed to be a hoax, and an obscure one at that. In-universe,
knowledge of his existence is rarely tied to the experiments of Sallis,
as are speculations as to any human identity he may have had. Despite
having appeared in Citrusville many times, many there still believe him
to be a rumor.


Other versions

There were other known Man-Things in the comics besides Ted Sallis:

-   In the pages of Savage Wolverine as part of the  NOW!_
    event, a different Man-Thing appeared where it resided on a
    mysterious island somewhere in the Savage Land. Amadeus Cho
    confirmed that this Man-Thing is not Ted Sallis as it has been
    rooted on the island for a long time. The Neanderthals on the island
    used the blood of this Man-Thing to resurrect Shanna the
    She-Devil.
-   During the Secret Wars storyline, a bunch of Man-Things reside on
    the Battleworld domain of Weirdworld, where they are found in the
    Forest of the Man-Things. The Man-Things encounter Arkon and Skull
    the Slayer after they fell into their area. The Man-Things are
    ruled over by the Swamp Queen of the Man-Things (a variation of
    Jennifer Kale), who is behind the rebellion of the Witch Queen
    Morgan le Fay.


Comic book spin-offs

Dr. Barbara Morse was introduced in the second Man-Thing story by Len
Wein/Neal Adams, although because of publication delays, she was
introduced in Astonishing Tales #6, with the Wein/Adams story
presented as flashback. Morse became the costumed hero Mockingbird in
 Team-Up #95 and went on to become a prominent member of
Avengers West Coast, eventually sacrificing her life to save her
husband, Clint "Hawkeye" Barton, from Mephisto. Until recently, her
spirit fought alongside Daimon Hellstrom to eliminate demons from his
Hell; however, she has appeared alive during the Secret Invasion
crossover. At the end of Secret Invasion, Mockingbird was revealed to be
alive and had been one of the early captures of the Skrulls. Morse has
joined the New Avengers and has had adventures alongside Hawkeye.

Jennifer Kale debuted in Fear #11, which was the first story Steve
Gerber wrote for  after his initial tryout. She went on to appear
in two team books, The Legion of Night, created and written by Gerber
and partially composed of several other Gerber-created supporting cast
members such as Martin Gold and Dr. Katherine Reynolds, and Bronwyn
Carlton and Bryan Walsh's Witches in which she teamed with Satana and
Topaz under the tutelage of Doctor Strange.

Gerber introduced Howard the Duck in a Man-Thing story in Adventure
into Fear #19. Howard, who was displaced from a planet of
anthropomorphics in another dimension via the swamp's Nexus of All
Realities, later acquired his own series, which was written by Gerber
for the first 27 issues.

The Foolkiller, a vigilante who used a ray-gun to disintegrate not only
criminals but anyone he considered foolish, was introduced in issue #3
of this series, bent on slaying disc jockey Richard Rory, introduced in
the previous issue. When Rory served time for trumped-up kidnapping
charges, he accidentally created another Foolkiller when he revealed too
much detail about the previous incarnation and the whereabouts of his
gear. This Foolkiller became an occasional villain in other 
comics. Both Rory and this second Foolkiller, along with nurse Ruth Hart
(who appeared in Man-Thing # 2-7) were supporting characters in
Gerber's Omega the Unknown, while David Anthony Kraft made Rory a
potential love interest for She-Hulk. A third version of the character,
who was in internet communication with the second, starred in Gerber's
1990 Foolkiller miniseries. A second series by Greg Hurwitz, featuring
a fourth Foolkiller, appeared in 2008.


Other versions

The Adventures of the X-Men

In The Adventures of the X-Men, which is set in the world of the
X-Men animated series (Earth-921031), Storm and Jean Grey are
inadvertently teleported to Man-Thing's swamp from the Mojoverse. The
three battle D'Spayre, who appears as a fake preacher trying to lead
people up a suicide tower that is drawing energy out of the Nexus of All
Realities. D'Spayre, working for the Dweller-in-Darkness, is burned by
Man-Thing when he fears failure. After their defeat of D'Spayre, Jean
makes a psychic link with Man-Thing (which she had done earlier to learn
his origin) and is imparted information that she believes is the most
important thing in the world. Jean is forced to become the Phoenix once
more, using the information obtained from Man-Thing, destroys the
M'Kraan Crystal, and in doing so, ends the universe. However, one
survivor is sent into the universe to come, Galactus, thereby implying
that the animation continuity takes place eons before the mainstream
 continuity.

Mutant X

The Mutant X comic book series depicts a  Universe in which
characters' counterparts are vastly different. In the Mutant X Annual
'99 (1999), Doctor Strange, the sorcerer supreme of Earth, reveals
himself to be the Man-Thing. He returns in Mutant X Annual '01
(2001), and Mutant X #32 (June 2001).

Earth-691

Amazing Adventures volume 2 #38 tells the story of what happened when
Killraven stumbled across the Miami Museum of Cultural Development and
became caught up in the projected dreams of an astronaut from the "Mars
launch in 1999." During the hallucination, Killraven encountered
distorted versions of numerous  characters. Rather ambiguously,
the awakened astronaut later described the figures as "all the heroes
from my youth" but he also often referred to them as "myths". The only
 character that is definitely "real" in the projected nightmare is
the Man-Thing who appears as part of an actual memory of an encounter
that the astronaut had with the creature in the Florida Everglades.

 Super Hero Squad

Man-Thing appears in issue #10 of  Super Hero Squad.

Deadpool Kills the  Universe

Man-Thing appears in the last issue and appears to be standing guard
over all creation. It ultimately accepts Deadpool's plan and kills the
Taskmaster.

Ultimate 

Ultimate Man-Thing, in the alternate-universe Ultimate  imprint,
is similar to his traditional counterpart in mainstream continuity. In
his first appearance, he teamed with Spider-Man in Ultimate  Team
Up #10, unwittingly saving the superhero from the Lizard.
Additionally, in Ultimate Fantastic Four #7, during a flashback that
transformed Reed Richards and his colleagues into the Fantastic Four,
the Man-Thing is shown for a moment.

What If

The second story in the alternate-reality anthology What If #26 (April
1981) asked, "What if the Man-Thing had Regained Ted Sallis' Brain?"
Written by Steven Grant, with art by penciller Herb Trimpe and inker Bob
Wiacek. In the story, an alligator Dr. Oheimer was working on became the
new Man-Thing while Sallis self-immolated at his own fear.

What If vol. 2, #11 (March 1990) featured the Fantastic Four in four
scenarios written and penciled by Jim Valentino, showing what might have
happened if the team-members had all had the same powers as one another.
In "What if the Fantastic Four had All Become Monsters Like the Thing?",
Sue Storm's appearance was that of the Man-Thing. In this form she had
lost all but her very basic intelligence and could no longer speak.


In other media

Film

G|thumbnail|right|Lionsgrate release DVD cover for the live-action film
Man-Thing.

-   In 2005, Lionsgate Films produced the film Man-Thing, which was
    directed by Brett Leonard and written by Hans Rodionoff, Mark
    Stevens starred as the title character. The film premiered on
    the U.S. Sci Fi Channel, under the Sci Fi Pictures label, on April
    30, 2005. An uncut version appeared on DVD June 14,
    2005. Three characters are named after some of the original
    comics' creators: Robert Mammone as "Mike Ploog", William Zappa as
    "Steve Gerber", and director Leonard himself as "Val Mayerik"
    (misspelled "Mayerick" in the credits).
-   Prior to the film's premiere,  released a three-issue comic
    book prequel to it also written by Hans Rodionoff, and with art by
    Kyle Hotz. The limited series details an insurance claims
    adjuster's investigation into the attacks perpetrated against Schist
    Petroleum by Man-Thing.

Television

-   Man-Thing appeared in The Super Hero Squad Show episode "This
    Man-Thing, This Monster", voiced by Dave Boat. He teams up with Iron
    Man and Werewolf by Night in order to rescue Werewolf by Night's
    girlfriend Ellen from Dracula. After Dracula is repelled by
    Man-Thing's powers, Man-Thing joins Werewolf by Night and his
    girlfriend Ellen in forming a team to defend the town from future
    monster attacks.
-   Man-Thing appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man episodes "Blade" and
    "The Howling Commandos". He appears as a member of Nick Fury's
    Howling Commandos.
-   Man-Thing appears in the Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H._ episode
    "Hulking Commandos".

Video games

-   The Man-Thing makes a cameo appearance in Jill Valentine's ending in
     vs. Capcom 3: Fate of Two Worlds.


Merchandise

-   Toy Biz released a Man-Thing action figure in their  Legends
    line in 2005.
-   There are four Man-Thing miniatures, all with the same sculpt, but
    different levels of powers, in the HeroClix "Mutant Mayhem" set
    which was released in 2004.
-   Two more miniatures, one of Man-Thing and Howard the Duck together
    and one of Man-Thing alone, were released in February 2013 as part
    of the "Amazing Spider-Man" HeroClix set.

