MANTIS is a fictional character, a superhero appearing in American comic
books published by . The character is a former member of
the Avengers. The character was ranked 99th in Comics Buyer's Guide's
"100 Sexiest Women in Comics" list.


Publication history

Mantis first appeared in Avengers #112 (June 1973), drawn by Don Heck
and created by writer Steve Englehart. The character later appeared (in
slightly different name and form) in books published by other comic book
companies, moving from  to  to Eclipse to Image and finally back
to  again.


Fictional character biography

 beginnings

Mantis is the half-Vietnamese, half-German daughter of Gustav
Brandt—Libra—and was born in Huế, Vietnam. In her childhood, her father
leaves her in Vietnam at the Temple of the alien Priests of Pama, a sect
of the Kree. The Kree believe she might become the Celestial Madonna and
mate with the eldest Cotati on Earth to become the mother of the
Celestial Messiah, "the most important being in the universe".

She excels in her martial arts studies, but when she reaches adulthood,
she is mind-wiped and sent into the world to gain life experience. She
becomes a prostitute and barmaid in a Vietnamese bar, where she meets
the Swordsman. She helps him regain his self-respect and follows him
when the former villain attempts to rejoin the Avengers. She became an
Avengers ally when the Swordsman rejoined the Avengers, and she battled
the Lion God alongside them.

With the Avengers, Mantis had many adventures. She battled the original
Zodiac, and learned that Libra was her father and that she was raised by
the Priests of Pama. She encountered the Star-Stalker, battled
Thanos, Klaw and Solarr, Nuklo, and then alongside the
Avengers, Fantastic Four, and Inhumans, she faced Ultron at the wedding
of Quicksilver and Crystal.

Mantis becomes taken with the Vision, and—although rejected by the
android—neglects the Swordsman. Alongside the Scarlet Witch and Agatha
Harkness, she was abducted by Kang. She was revealed as the Celestial
Madonna and witnessed the death of the Swordsman at the hands of Kang,
only realizing the depth of her love for the Swordsman just as he
dies. She then buried the Swordsman, and battled the Titanic
Three. She would learn the origins of the Kree-Skrull War, the
Cotati, and the Priests of Pama. Mantis then formally joined the
Avengers and is revealed to be, indeed, the Celestial Madonna and
marries a Cotati in the reanimated body of the Swordsman, leaving the
Avengers and the Earth to mate with him.

: Willow

After leaving , writer Steve Englehart carried Mantis' tale
through three other companies before returning to .

In ' Justice League of America #142, she appears as WILLOW.
Asked where she came from, Willow replies, "This one has come from a
place she must not name, to reach a place no man must know." (Mantis
refers to herself as "this one"). After two issues, she leaves to go
give birth.

Eclipse: Lorelei

In the Eclipse Comics series Scorpio Rose #2 (according to Englehart's
website 1), the character calls herself LORELEI. By this time, she has
given birth to a son. What would have been issue #3, a "lost"
Lorelei/Scorpio Rose story, was later published in Coyote Collection
#1 from Image Comics, the character's fourth company. Lorelei is later
name-dropped in Englehart's 2010 novel The Long Man (page 355, mass
market paperback edition).

 history resumes

After she bears her child, Sequoia, she takes the name "Mandy
Celestine" and lives with him for a year in Willimantic, Connecticut
before handing him to his father's people and going into space with the
Silver Surfer and battling the Elders of the Universe alongside the
Surfer. The Silver Surfer finds himself falling in love with Mantis.
However, Mantis (whose body was now green and had begun to manifest new
powers of invulnerability that allowed her to survive in space due to
side-effects of her pregnancy) grows bitter with her life and the way
she was forced to abandon her child. This comes to a head when Mantis is
caught in an explosion and presumed dead by Silver Surfer. She survives,
but the strain of the previous years causes her to literally split into
multiple versions of herself, each representing conflicting aspects of
her psyche that could no longer co-exist inside her mind.

The fragments arrive on Earth and one version of Mantis rejoins the West
Coast Avengers team, with portions of her memories missing. (Steve
Englehart intended the storyline involving Mantis and her amnesia to be
his next major plotline, but editorial problems caused him to quit the
series, with the plotline resolved hastily.) Mantis discovers, through
the temporarily resurrected corpse of the Swordsman, that her psyche had
shattered and that she needs to find her counterparts in order to
restore her memories. She made her way to New York City where she
encountered the Fantastic Four as they dealt with the effects of the
Inferno storyline. Kang pursued Mantis, not realizing she had lost
her power and hoping to use her to attack the Dreaming Celestial, and in
the process the Surfer was summoned to Earth. With the aid of the
Cotati, Kang was defeated but Mantis realized she must leave her body
and join with the Cotati to raise her son.

Aside from mentions by Silver Surfer, Mantis does not reappear until
1995's controversial Avengers crossover story "The Crossing". In "The
Crossing", Mantis returns as the villainous bride of Kang the Conqueror
with the intention of bringing death to the Avengers; her father Libra
(who by now was going by the name "Moonraker" as part of Force Works);
and the Cotati alien who had possessed the Swordsman's body and
married/impregnated her. Her anger at her father (whom she had
vivisected) and the Cotati center around their "defilement" of her and
that she hates the Avengers for believing their manipulative lies.

The storyline was controversial, so much so that Kurt Busiek, in
Avengers Forever limited series, retconned the Mantis who appeared in
the story as being a Space Phantom brainwashed into thinking he was
Mantis. [ Mantis in action, taking on a larger, stronger foe with
characteristic bravado and self-narration. Art by Sal Buscema and Joe
Staton.]

Eventually, Mantis reappears in the Steve Englehart written Avengers:
Celestial Quest limited series. She returns to Earth and merges with
her remaining fragmented portions of her personality (which we learn
represent "freak, mother, prostitute, mystic, and Avenger") after the
first four are killed by Thanos (later retroactively declared to be a
clone of the real Thanos). The final Mantis merges with them to become a
"complete" Mantis for the first time since her dispersion. Thus
reformed, she and a group of the Avengers go into space to stop "Thanos"
from killing her son, Quoi, who by this time is a rebellious teenager
desperate to leave the isolation of the Cotati home-world and travel the
stars. During the adventure, Mantis flirts with Vision (with the
implication that she has sex with him), but ultimately ends the flirting
when she realizes that he has feelings for his estranged wife Scarlet
Witch, who is jealous of Mantis and Vision's friendship. Mantis also
appears in the "Avengers Disassembled" storyline, although many
occurrences in that storyline are illusions.

Mantis appears in the 2007 miniseries Annihilation Conquest:
Star-Lord, where she is shown as a Kree prisoner who volunteers for a
mission led by Peter Quill, a.k.a. Star-Lord.

After the defeat of Ultron and the Phalanx, Mantis takes up residence on
the Knowhere station with the rest of the Guardians of the Galaxy.
She has assumed the role of counselor for the group, using her knowledge
of the mind to maintain a balance with all the very eclectic
personalities of the group.

During the Secret Invasion storyline, it was discovered that Star-Lord
had Mantis use her mental powers to manipulate the members of the
Guardians of the Galaxy to join the team against their will. Overhearing
Mantis and Star-Lord converse about their deception, Drax shared this
knowledge with the rest of the team. This caused most of the members to
leave. Mantis was promoted to field status by Rocket Raccoon.

Mantis was apparently killed by the Magus, who, upon anticipating that
Mantis would use her mental powers to incapacitate him, struck her and
her fellow psionic Cosmo dead with a powerful blast of energy.
However, it was revealed that she, along with fellow Guardians
Phyla-Vell, Cosmo, Gamora and Major Victory are still alive, but being
held prisoner in suspended animation by the Magus. She reunites with
the other team of Guardians, telling Moondragon that Phyla-Vell was the
first one killed by Thanos' rampage.

Mantis later rescues Peter Quill from a group of pursuing Spartax
soldiers. Though she refuses to join his new incarnation of the
Guardians, she helps him track down the source of mysterious "time
quakes" that have been plaguing him in the wake of the Age of Ultron
storyline.


Powers and abilities

Mantis was trained by the Priests of Pama to become a grandmistress of
the martial arts, demonstrated as fully capable of defeating opponents
as skilled as Captain America (while he was distracted in fighting a
dragon). She could also instinctively sense weak points in an
opponent and with her skills in pressure points, knocks out beings as
powerful as the thunder god Thor. She has only lost in hand to
hand martial arts match to Moondragon, and her father Libra.

She has attained a mastery of meditational disciplines giving her an
unusual amount of control over her body, including autonomic functions
like heartbeat, bleeding, and breathing, as well as awareness of pain,
allowing her to more quickly heal injuries through sheer force of will,
and affording almost superhuman reflexes and reactions. She also had
psychic empathy, a telepathic power that allowed her to sense the
emotions of others.

Mantis gained additional abilities as a result of communion with the
Prime Cotati. Her empathic ability enabled her to communicate with the
plant-like Cotati and with plant life. To travel in space, Mantis had
the ability to separate her physical and astral forms, projecting her
consciousness from her body, allowing her to travel interplanetary
distances. She also had the ability to transfer her astral form to any
place where plant life exists. She could form and inhabit a plant like
simulacrum of her human body for herself out of the destination planet's
local vegetation. Her fighting skills remained intact, and her empathic
abilities were heightened to a superhuman degree and extended to the
planet’s flora and biosphere. She could control the vegetation within
her vicinity.

During her confrontations with a powerful Thanos clone, she displayed
superhuman strength, a talent to simultaneously inhabit multiple
simulacra, and the ability to project strong blasts of energy, but has
not been seen using these powers since.

As of her appearance in Annihilation Conquest: Star-Lord, Mantis also
appears to have gained telepathic and precognitive abilities, and
apparently now labors under a constant awareness of future events. The
source of these new powers is as yet unclear. Other powers displayed or
referred to during the series were pyrokinesis, mid-range mentat
training, and invisibility to the Phalanx.


Other versions

Heroes Reborn

In the Heroes Reborn reality, the alternate version of Mantis is the
woman Kang the Conqueror loves, and Kang's motive to attack the 20th
Century and the Avengers is to show that he is worthy of her love.
Mantis recognizes her love for Kang after he is killed by Loki, who
kills her shortly after.

House of M

In this reality, Mantis is a member of Shang-Chi's Dragons criminal
organization, alongside, Swordsman, Zaran, and Machete. Mantis is
arrested after the Dragons are ambushed by the Kingpin's assassins. She
and Shang-Chi are two of the three survivors of the group.


In other media

Television

-   Mantis appears in the Guardians of the Galaxy episode "Don't Stop
    Believin'", voiced by Jennifer Hale. The Guardians of the Galaxy
    members Gamora, Drax the Destroyer, Rocket Raccoon, and Groot
    encounter Mantis where she takes them through the tunnels beneath
    the Spartaxian Royal Palace in order to save Star-Lord. They go
    through various obstacles where Mantis tells them to believe. After
    the group frees Star-Lord, they end up in the throne room where the
    Cosmic Seed energy is even after a fight with the robots there and a
    brief fight with Emperor J'son. When Mantis claims that J'son is a
    tyrant, she tries to attack him only to be subdued by the Guardians
    of the Galaxy. While being remanded to the dungeon, Mantis still
    claims that J'son is a tyrant and that they will eventually believe
    that fact.

Film

-   In October 2015, Pom Klementieff was cast as Mantis for Guardians
    of the Galaxy Vol. 2. This was confirmed by director James Gunn
    in February 2016.

Video games

-   Mantis is a playable character in Guardians of the Galaxy: The
    Universal Weapon.
-   Mantis is a playable character in Lego 's Avengers.

