MASTER MIND EXCELLO (EARL EVERETT) is an American comic book
character owned by  who exists in that company's 
Universe. His only appearances were in Mystic Comics #2 and 3,
published in the 1940s by 's forerunner, Timely Comics, during a
period that is known as the Golden Age of Comic Books.


Fictional character biography

Master Mind Excello is a short lived golden age of comics character,
whose only known appearances were in issues #2 and 3 of Mystic Comics,
published by Timely Comics in 1940.

Master Mind Excello, whose real name is EARL EVERETT is a precognitive
with great mental powers and physically honed to perfection who uses his
powers to help the US Naval Intelligence Department. He makes use of his
assets sensing spies on the European battlefield, to catch them, and
thwart a gang of railway saboteurs. 

He then fades into obscurity until the 2000s limited series The
Twelve.

The Twelve

In the twelve-issue miniseries The Twelve, he is sent along with
Captain America and the Invaders to help the Allies' efforts in the
Battle of Berlin, and is captured by Nazi SS researchers. Held in stasis
with ten other fellow heroes and the deactivated robot Elektro, he is
scheduled to be shipped to a secret lab to gain insight on American
superheroes. The surrender of Germany, and the collapse of the cave in
which the heroes are held, meant that Excello was never smuggled away,
and was left to sleep for sixty years.

Awakened in modern times, Excello now finds his sensory powers
overburdened by the noise and broaast communications of the modern
world, and unable to see the future. He taps into his Swiss bank
account, which has ballooned with decades' worth of interest, and moves
away from his fellow heroes to a quieter mansion with lead-lined walls
in upstate New York.

In the series' last issue, Excello reveals the origin and nature of his
powers to the Phantom Reporter following the death of Fiery Mask.
According to Excello, he was born into a life of wealth and privilege,
the son of a famous nuclear science researcher, who had rejected a life
of scientific advancement for one of gambling and petty vices. Although
dedicated towards spending his family's fortune as quickly as his father
could make it, Excello soon realized that he possessed a form of
low-level telepathy (rationalized as intuition) which made it possible
for him to aways win at games of chance due his ability to "guess" the
future. This ability was later amplified after Excello was exposed to a
radioactive bullet, created by his father for use against the Nazis, and
fired at Excello after he used his powers to prevent a double agent from
assassinating his father with the same bullet. Although he was shot
through the skull, the bullet travelled through Excello's corpus
callosum and united his brain's two hemispheres, increasing his
telepathy and cognition at the cost of having the bullet's shrapnel
permanently lodged in his brain. Excello goes on to say that every time
he uses his powers the bullet shards move closer to killing him, and
thus, he must be mindful of how often he uses them. At the end of the
series, Excello decides to use his inheritance to fund EXC Executive,
a private investigation agency which he hopes will make a difference in
the world; he hires Phantom Reporter and The Black Widow as agents.


Notes

