MERLYN is a fictional character in the  universe. He claims
to be the Merlin of British Legends (see Identity) and served for many
years as the Omniversal Guardian, a function his daughter Roma took from
him. Though the Merlin character first appeared in earlier comics,
Merlyn first appeared in Captain Britain #1 (1976).


Identity

Merlyn is but one of several characters in the  Universe claiming
to be the Merlin of legend. Combined with the fact that Merlyn is also a
habitual liar and manipulator, it is nearly impossible to determine
which actions were done by Merlyn and which by other Merlins.

The profile at the end of the Die by the Sword trade gives his first
appearance as Young Allies Comics #11 (1944), explicitly linking the
modern version with the earlier, legendary, version. However, that
Merlin appears to be only one aspect of Merlyn, as the profile states
"Evidence suggests Merlyn and his daughter Roma are physical
amalgamations of all their interdimensional counterparts, presumably
with access to the combined knowledge and skills of the entire gestalt."
Other characters have also passed themselves off as Merlyn as "His
legendary reputation has led others, Merlin Demonspawn, Space Phantoms,
stage magician Joe Cooke and a time traveler known as the Doctor, to
impersonate him, further confusing matters."

This page only deals with the confirmed actions of Merlyn.


Fictional character biography

Merlyn was born on an alternate earth as a member of a race of immortal,
powerful beings. He became the student of Necrom, his world's Sorcerer
Supreme. Necrom asked Merlyn and his fellow-student Feron to assist him
in a magical ritual. Feron would contact the cosmic Phoenix Force on
Earth-616 and using the Phoenix an alignment would be created between
parallel universes. This alignment would be marked with a tower in the
same place on every Earth in the Omniverse. According to magical
principles, such an alignment would create a matrix of nearly endless
magical energy. Necrom desired the power of the Phoenix for himself
though and he attacked Feron. Feron, his powers enhanced by the Phoenix,
battled his master and Merlyn used the opportunity to jump into the
Matrix, taking its power for his own. Necrom wounded the Phoenix and
escaped with a small part of it. The Phoenix left Feron and Feron stayed
behind on Earth-616, dedicating his life to asking the Phoenix for
forgiveness.

Merlyn travelled to Otherworld and established himself as Omniversal
Guardian, safeguarding the total of all universes in existence. With the
powers of the Matrix, Merlyn dedicated himself to protecting the
universe and finding Necrom. Necrom hid and planned for the next few
centuries, changing the part of the Phoenix Force that he had stolen
into the Anti-Phoenix. Merlyn founded the Captain Britain Corps, a
group of matrix-powered superheroes based on each Earth in the
omniverse. Merlyn sent his best agent, Sir James Braddock, to Earth-616
to father a hero. James' first son, Jamie Braddock, was unsuitable for
Merlyn's purposes, but the twins Elizabeth and Brian both were. Merlyn
chose Brian to become Earth-616's Captain Britain and he would be
pivotal to Merlyn's plans.

Over the years, Merlyn manipulated Brian to become a stronger and wiser
hero. He partnered Brian with the Black Knight, another of Merlyn's
champions, to teach him more about magic. Merlyn used Brian to stop Mad
Jim Jaspers, a reality warper who threatened the fabric of the
multiverse itself. Merlyn seemingly died in the battle between Jaspers
and the Fury. Merlyn was buried and Roma took over as Omniversal
Guardian.

Merlyn faked his death though and hid, even from his daughter. In secret
he manipulated his daughter and Captain Britain to form Excalibur, a
team of superheroes, who would become his weapon against Necrom.
Excalibur would take the tower that was part of the Matrix as their
base, not knowing the true meaning of this building. Necrom resurfaced
and fought Excalibur. In the battle, Rachel Summers killed Necrom and
Merlyn appeared to congratulate Excalibur. Excalibur was furious at
Merlyn for manipulating them and endangering them all. Roma, also
disappointed in her father's callous behavior, assisted Excalibur in
destroying their tower and by extension the Matrix. Merlyn left in rage
at losing his source of power.

Merlyn and Roma both met occasionally on Otherworld, but Merlyn didn't
retake his position as Omniversal Guardian, trusting his daughter to
protect the Omniverse. He was nowhere to be seen when Mastermind took
over Otherworld or during the House of M. He reappeared in X-Men: Die
by the Sword (published in 2007) where he attempted to get revenge by
sending agents to attack Captain Britain and teaming up with the revived
Jim Jaspers. During this fight Merlyn attacked and killed Roma but was
eventually defeated along with all his forces by a combined Excalibur
and Exiles and then disappears. However, before making his escape the
last remaining shard of the Fury entered Merlyn's body without him
knowing.

With Merlyn being the physical amalgamation of all his interdimensional
counterparts, this allowed Merlin to remove the shard of the Fury while
taking his other counterparts' madness out with it, which allowed Merlin
to take control away from Merlyn.


Powers and abilities

Merlyn has vast magical abilities and is immortal. He can create
illusions, change his shape, observe other realities, raise the dead and
manipulate energy. Sometimes he uses advanced technology to help him.

