METTLE (KEN MACK) is a fictional character from . He was
recruited into training at the Avengers Academy to become an Avenger.


Publication history

Mettle first appeared in Avengers Academy #1 (June 2010) and was
created by Christos Gage and Mike McKone. He appeared as a regular
character in the series through its final issue, #39 (Jan 2013).

Mettle appeared briefly in Avengers Arena, the successor title to
Avengers Academy, by Dennis Hopeless and Kev Walker.


Fictional character biography

Ken Mack was a sixteen-year-old Hawaiian surfer with a laid back and
carefree attitude. While surfing, another surfer hit him with a surf
board and ripped away part of his face, which revealed a red iridium
skull at the point of impact. He was taken to Norman Osborn, where Dr.
Baron Von Blitzschlag explained that the trauma accelerated his
transformation that was already taking place. Norman Osborn accelerated
the transformation, changing Ken's body to be completely iridium.

Heroic Age

Mettle is recruited into the Avengers Academy along with five other
students who have been affected by Osborn. In a sparring session with
Reptil he is shown to withstand intense heat from a flame thrower with
no effect. Noticing that they have been joined by Veil, he comments on
her costume, but she becomes frightened by his appearance, changing into
her gas form.

He is portrayed as a more responsible member of the new recruits, after
discovering that they will all have a training session with Justice and
Speedball. Striker complains in relation to the incident at Stamford
stating that Speedball was stupid in his battle with Nitro. Mettle
instead stated that he would be the perfect teacher, given their
abilities one wrong move and any of one them could be a potential
murderer. During their training session, Speedball increases the
difficulty with Hazmat responding with a radiation blast. Justice
suggests that he take a break. Then Finesse notices Speedball and
Quicksilver arguing about keeping a secret from the cadets. By accessing
secret computer files, the students realize that they are not the most
powerful, nor the smartest or even the most highly trained kids that
Osborn kidnapped. Instead they have been chosen for the academy because
they have the greatest potential to go rogue and become dangerous
villains.

On a visit to the Raft, Mettle, Hazmat, and Veil plan to seek out Norman
Osborn in his cell to kill him for revenge. Hazmat used her power to
cause a blackout, giving them enough time for Mettle to rip the Osborn's
cell door. However, they let him live when Osborn said he could fix
them. When the students were questioned about who cause the blackout,
Mettle lied and said it seemed like fate led them to Osborn. Mettle
has fought against Arsenal, Whirlwind, Mentallo, and the Absorbing
Man. After a video of Tigra's assault by the Hood, Mettle refused to
go with Hazmat, Veil, and Striker to get revenge.

In an attempt to bring back the Wasp, Veil mistakenly resurrects Carina
Walters, Korvac senses her and arrives to take her back. When Carina
refuses to go with him, Korvac attacks, but the Avengers show up to
battle him. Carina temporarily transforms Mettle and his teammates to
obtain powers from their future selves in order to defeat Korvac. He
punches through Korvac, thinking that he killed him. It is later
revealed that his future-self seemed comfortable with killing, which
scares Mettle. After the fight, Mettle seeks out Hazmat in the student's
lounge where they share an emotional moment knowing that they may never
be cured.

At the Prom, Mettle and Hazmat shared their thoughts and feelings to
each other and decided to start a romantic relationship.

Fear Itself

In the Fear Itself storyline, Mettle throws a pole at an armor robot
attacking Washington D.C., killing both the pilot and gunner. He feels
guilt for doing so, but Tigra reassures him that by killing him, he
saved the lives of innocent civilians. When Titania and the Absorbing
Man attacks the Infinite Mansion, Mettle and Hazmat chose to hold them
back and sacrifice themselves in order for their teammates to escape.
However, the Avengers Academy instructors show up to save them. In
the aftermath of Fear Itself, Mettle and Hazmat attempt to have sex, but
Hazmat was still traumatized over her previous boyfriend.

Avengers Arena and death

After finally having sex with Hazmat while the teachers (and most
students) were away, Mettle is abducted alongside Hazmat, Reptil, X-23,
Juston Seyfert, and a dozen others by Arcade on Christmas Eve during the
 NOW!_ event. Mettle is apparently killed by Arcade in
Murderworld, as he sacrificed himself to spare Hazmat as the weak link
among the 16. When suspicions arise as to where the abductees have
gone, Arcade activates the "contingency", using a remotely operated copy
of Mettle to assuage the worries of Hank Pym and explain away the
absence of the teen heroes. When Deathlocket stumbles into an
underground facility, she sees a robotic version of Mettle; its skull is
exposed to showcase its mechanical parts.


Powers and abilities

Possessing a body of living iridium, he is virtually indestructible,
shown to be able to withstand the intense heat of a flame thrower. His
costume is made of "unstable molecules" that Mister Fantastic designed,
which is able to adjust to his powers. He has superhuman strength
and durability due to his body, but he is unable to transform back into
his human form. However, due to the tampering of Norman Osborn, he is
unable to feel the basic of human sensations due to deteriorated nerve
endings and remains closed off from the world. Mettle has been shown
that he does not know his own strength and is fearful of his powers.

Before obtaining his iridium body, Ken Mack was an experienced surfer.


Other versions

Mettle appears as a zombie in  Zombies Halloween, attacking Kitty
Pryde and her son Peter with other zombies, but is seemingly repelled by
Mephisto.

In ' Universe Vs. The Avengers' Mettle provides vital support to
the defenses of Manhattan island during the cannibal plague sweeping the
world.


Reception

In an article for The Philadelphia Inquirer, Jerome Maida describes
Mettle as an "invulnerable powerhouse".

A review of Avengers Academy #14.1 by David Pepose for Newsarama
expressed his love of the expressions artist Sean Chen gives to the
characters, including Mettle "whose face still speaks volumes even as
its frozen in the shape of a skull". In his review of Avengers
Academy #20, Pepose called Tom Raney's depiction of the "still-faced"
Mettle "absolutely heartbreaking".

