MIMIC (CALVIN MONTGOMERY RANKIN) is a fictional character appearing in
American comic books published by . He was briefly a member
of the X-Men in the 1960s, and was the first character to be added to
the team after the original line-up and the first X-Man who was not a
mutant.

An alternate reality version of Mimic became a popular member of the
Exiles, the reality-hopping team.


Publication history

Created by writer Stan Lee and artist Werner Roth, he first appeared in
X-Men vol. 1 #19 (April 1966) as a villain.


Fictional character biography

Origins

Calvin Rankin was born in Passaic, New Jersey. After an accidental mixup
of chemicals from his father Ronald's experiments, he gained the ability
to temporarily copy the skills, physical traits, knowledge, and
superpowers of any person within close range (approximately ten feet),
which led people to fear him. When his father found out about this, he
retreated with Calvin into a mine where he worked on a machine which, as
he claimed, would make the abilities his son absorbed permanent.
However, his experiments with the device caused several power outages in
the vicinity; in order to hold off the mob which was tracking these
disturbances, Ronald Rankin blasted the mine entrance, but he was
accidentally caught and killed in the explosion, and his device sealed
deep inside the mine.

With the X-Men

Taking the name Mimic, Cal decided to seek out the X-Men in a plot to
get to the machine and make their powers his permanently, after
realizing Beast and Iceman were members once he absorbed their powers.
Mimic went to the Mansion by tracking  Girl, realizing who she was
after gaining telekinetic power. He battled the X-Men, escaped them, but
took  Girl hostage. He drove her to a cave, knowing the rest would
follow. He tied her hands and left her while he used the optic power of
Cyclops to break through the rubble to the machine. The other members
freed  Girl and battled Mimic. Initially he gained the upper hand
and activated the machine after using Professor X's power to understand
how the machine worked, but his powers were removed by Ronald Rankin's
device, as Professor X had expected. Xavier then wiped his memory and
let him go.

It was while attending the same college as Jean Grey that his memory
returned. In another attempt to gain the X-Men's abilities, Mimic set
his sights on joining their ranks, becoming deputy leader in the process
when he blackmailed his way into joining the X-Men. As a member of
the team, he soon began to antagonize the other X-Men with his arrogant
behavior and ended up expelled after a fight with Cyclops. He later
realized his potential when he saved his team-mates from the
Super-Adaptoid, defeating the android by tricking it into trying to copy
his artificial powers. This battle robbed him of his abilities, and he
is left powerless but a better person.

After the X-Men

Eventually he regained his powers, but they were enhanced to also absorb
people's life forces, killing them. As the Beast tried to work out a
solution, Calvin seemingly perished in a self-sacrificial fight against
the Hulk after absorbing the Hulk's gamma radiation. For a long time
the X-Men believed him to be dead. In actuality, Mimic was in a coma
which lasted for years. This ended only when the regenerative mutant
Wolverine came near him. Mimic's power copied Wolverine's healing
ability and he woke up.

Mimic's powers soon began to drain the life energy of those around him
again. He fled to a remote Siberian village, where he soon encountered
X-Force, who were investigating a distress call. X-Force arrived to find
a number of dead scientists and an enraged Mimic, who illogically blamed
X-Force for their deaths. During the fight, Mimic copied the power of
Sunspot, and their identical charge caused a large explosion, after
which Mimic was nowhere to be found.

Mimic was later recruited by the entity Onslaught and his powers
stabilized. Along with the Blob he confronted X-Force member Warpath,
but with the assistance of Risque, Warpath was able to subdue them.
Soon after, Onslaught himself was defeated and Operation: Zero Tolerance
imprisoned Mimic. Later, Excalibur tracked his telepathic signature and
thinking that he was Professor Xavier, freed him. He was injured in this
encounter and came to Muir Island to recover.

Excalibur

Mimic became friends with Excalibur. He helps confront the threat of the
misguided Feron, who confronted the team with the Crazy Gang and the
Technet. Mimic attends Captain Britain's wedding.

Mimic later joined Mystique's Brotherhood of Mutants and assisted in
freeing the real Xavier. That group eventually disbanded, and Mimic was
not among later groupings.

Dark X-Men

During the Dark Reign storyline, Mimic became a member of Norman
Osborn's Dark X-Men team featured in Matt Fraction's Uncanny X-Men
stint where it was revealed that his unstable behavior was caused by
his previously undiagnosed bipolar disorder which is now being treated
with medication.

After Emma Frost and Namor defect to the X-Men taking Cloak and Dagger
with them, Rankin continues as a member of the Dark X-Men alongside
former Brotherhood member Mystique, Weapon Omega, and Dark Beast as they
try to capture Nate Grey during Osborn's reign. Green Goblin forces
Mimic to mimic the powers of Weapon Omega and forces the two of them to
siphon Nate Grey. They succeeded in neutralizing Nate Grey's powers at
least temporarily.

Wolverine's X-Men

After Norman Osborn was taken down by the Avengers following the Siege
of Asgard, Mimic and Weapon Omega left H.A.M.M.E.R. where Weapon Omega's
powers started acting up. Mimic went to Hank McCoy for help as he had
been the only person who had always aided him when he needed help. Mimic
took Weapon Omega to the Xavier Institute where Beast found out that
Weapon Omega was about to explode. The X-Men tried various ways to
prevent the explosion. But in the end, the only way left outside of
death was an induced artificial coma. Weapon Omega asked his only friend
to do it and Mimic complied. Borrowing powers from Rachel Grey, Mimic
put Weapon Omega to sleep promising to stay by his side until he wakes
up. After the ordeal, he asked Rogue if he could stay at the school in
which she agrees noting that she thinks he is going to be a wonderful
teacher.

Following the Avengers vs. X-Men storyline, Mimic and Rogue were the
only ones to respond to a prison riot at an unnamed prison. Although
they were overpowered by the villains Griffin, Icemaster, Lightmaster,
Quicksand, Ruby Thursday, Schizoid Man, Silk Fever, and Supercharger,
Rogue and Mimic were able to stop the riot by copying the powers of
Armadillo, Equinox, and Man-Bull.


Powers and abilities

Mimic is able to copy the knowledge, skills, and powers (if any) of
every individual within a certain range of him; different sources list
this as anywhere from several feet to a mile radius. In his first
appearances, he needed to get within about 5 feet to initially copy
someone's powers, but once he copied them he would retain the abilities
so long as he was within several miles of them, even if he left that
radius and then returned later. This was established shortly after he
joined the X-Men, when Professor X had him fly in increasing circles
using Angel's wings and he flew beyond his copy range and the wings
started to vanish, but they returned immediately when he turned back,
but this has been retconned and changed several times. This applies to
both superpowered and "normal" abilities, as shown when he duplicated
Kitty Pryde's ninja training. He has shown the capacity to manifest
numerous powers at the same time, and since he also absorbs knowledge,
he can immediately use copied powers with the same skill level as the
original owner. However, he occasionally shows difficulty in juggling
multiple powers, and his body can be overloaded by absorbing too many at
once. Usually the Mimic loses his duplicated abilities once out of range
of the owner, but due to the length of time spent with them, his body
permanently retains the powers of the original five X-Men: Angel, The
Beast, Cyclops, Iceman and  Girl (the High Evolutionary's
temporary elimination of the mutant gene once erased these powers from
the Mimic's genetic template, but they appear to have returned since).
Thus, he has the powers of flight (granted by angelic wings) of Angel,
the increased strength and agility of Beast (complete with enlarged
hands and feet), the optic blasts of Cyclops (because he lacks Cyclops'
brain damage, Mimic is able to control them), the temperature
manipulation of Iceman, and the telekinesis of Jean Grey. He partly
retains Professor X's telepathic powers, which once caused his
telepathic signature to be mistaken for that of Charles Xavier,
although he was not shown to be located during more recent searches for
Xavier. He may also retain Wolverine's recuperative abilities. Among the
characters his powers have temporarily copied are Banshee, Marrow,
Gambit, Rogue, Storm, Colossus, Nightcrawler, Shadowcat, Feron, Meggan,
Kylun, Micromax,  Girl (Rachel Summers), Wolfsbane, Pete Wisdom,
Psylocke, Risque, Siryn, Warpath, Sunspot, Cable, Caliban, Domino,
Boom-Boom, Rictor, Cannonball, Shatterstar, Post, Blob, Mystique, Toad,
members of the Crazy Gang, Weapon Omega, and numerous others.

The original Mimic as created by Stan Lee and Werner Roth was not a
mutant, but received his powers after breathing in some gas during an
explosion in his father's laboratory. Later X-Men writer Scott Lobdell
claimed it merely awakened and enhanced Mimic's latent mutant powers,
but this point is never made in the comics themselves and remains a
point of discussion.


Other versions

Ultimate 

In the Ultimate  Universe, the Mimic is believed to be not a
mutant but a prototype super soldier weapon that is being sold on the
black market. The Mimic was a soldier who served in Afghanistan who
volunteered for the project. He is shown to be transported by a
terrorist cell in Bulgaria who are intercepted by the Ultimates. In the
collision he is activated and released by the terrorists in the hope he
engages the Ultimates. His powers go haywire as he comes into contact
with Giant-Man just as he reveals his admiration for Captain America and
is consoled by Giant-Man.

Age of Apocalypse

In the Age of Apocalypse, Calvin Rankin was a prisoner and test subject
of the time travelling Sugar Man, who had travelled back from Earth-616
in order to create a plague. Rankin died because of the Sugar Man's
experiments. It is unknown if he had the copied powers of any mutants
here.

Civil War: House of M

Mimic is one of the government agents (alongside Nuke and Agent Barnes)
sent to Genosha to kill Magneto and as many of his followers as
possible. He and Nuke served as a distraction while Agent Barnes sneaked
into Magneto's headquarters. He then engaged Magneto in battle. But
despite all the mutant powers he manipulated simultaneously, he was
ultimately defeated when Magneto used an inhibitor collar to disable
Mimic's powers. The powers Mimic has copied are of Magneto's and some
unnamed Genoshans who possesses the abilities of hydrokinesis, flight
(through reptilian wings), claws, optic blasts, cryokinesis, sharp
fangs, pyrokinesis, and having multiple eyes.

Exiles

Mimic's heroic counterpart from a parallel world (Earth-12) is a
founding member of the multiverse-traveling superhero team called The
Exiles. This Mimic has a clear mutant origin and his powers have a
restriction: he can only copy a maximum of five mutant powers at a time.
The copied abilities are about half as powerful as those of the original
owners, and he is not able to copy knowledge or skill. For most of his
appearances, he retains the powers of Wolverine, Colossus, Cyclops, and
Beast. He is originally depicted with the feathered wings of Angel, but
gives those up in order to briefly copy the Dark Phoenix's powers, and
soon after mimics the abilities of Northstar.

In his reality, the Exiles' Rankin joined the Brotherhood and was
defeated by the X-Men. Abandoned by the Brotherhood, Mimic was
imprisoned and was only freed by the intervention of Professor X, who
invited him to join the X-Men. Mimic became a dedicated member. His
abilities raised the morale of the team, as each member knew they were
not alone in their powers, as Calvin could do exactly what they could.
Eventually Calvin rose to become leader of the team, and helped make his
world one where mutants, along with other heroes, are respected and
treated with a level of fame and celebrity. Much like Wolverine, who in
Rankin's reality is one of his closest friends, Rankin is fond of beer
and music and has an unrequited love for Jean Grey. Rankin owns a chain
of record stores and is a published author.

Although Rankin is accustomed to leading, he defers leadership to Blink
on the grounds that she is from a reality that is more removed from the
'mainstream' universe than the other Exiles, and will therefore be able
to make the judgement calls that their missions require without being
potentially compromised by her connection to the counterparts of their
opponents. Rankin also begins a romantic relationship with Blink. The
Exiles' missions grow increasingly dangerous, and Mimic is forced to
kill more than once to safeguard entire realities. Many of those he
slays are alternate versions of heroes he knows as allies in his home
reality and their deaths weigh heavily on his mind, Mimic coming to
increasingly resent how so many versions of the people he knows have
been corrupted by their power. After an encounter with the sorcery of a
vampiric Union Jack, Mimic is trapped for four years on an Earth overrun
by the Brood. On this Earth, he is implanted with a Brood egg. He
returns to his teammates incubating an egg only held at bay by his
acquired healing factor. The Brood egg hatches during a moment of
weakness, and the possessed Rankin is forced to attack his teammates,
killing Mariko Yashida (Sunfire). Devastated by his actions, Mimic
swears never to kill again. During an encounter with Weapon X, Mimic is
forced to mimic Deadpool's healing factor in order to survive.
Unfortunately for Mimic, the healing factor also comes with Deadpool's
unique skin condition; the very sight of which instigated a conflict
with Blink concerning their relationship. After swearing never to kill
again, his subsequent hesitation to do so, further compounded by an
illusion in which Blink claims to no longer love him, allows the villain
Proteus to possess him when the Exiles visit the House of M version of
the regular  Universe. After Proteus leaves Mimic's burnt husk of
a corpse, the Exiles put his body into stasis. Blink later takes him
back to his home reality for burial.

The Big M

Another alternate Mimic called The Big M was his world's greatest
criminal and leader of the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants. With his team he
slaughtered his reality's X-Men and committed numerous other crimes —
including mass murder — until he was finally captured by the Avengers
and sent to a high security prison.

He encounters the Exiles Mimic when the latter enters his dimension.
Using his telepathy, The Big M reads the Exiles Mimic's mind and
realizes that the only difference between the lives they led is that
while one of them accepted Xavier's offer of training and help, the
other rejected it and sought a more destructive path. He reforms and
reinvents the Brotherhood as his world's X-Men. He retains the powers of
Magneto, Professor X, Cannonball, Blink, and one unknown mutant.

X-Men: Evolution

In issue #6 of the X-Men: Evolution comic book, Mimic befriends Spyke
but leaves the team due to his arrogance. His body apparently does not
change in appearance when he copies powers.


In other media

Television

-   Mimic appears in the X-Men animated series in the beginning of the
    episode "One Man's Worth". He appears as a member of the Mutant
    Resistance fighting a quadruped robot. He has the muscular body of
    the Beast and Angel's wings, and he shoots an optic blast, seemingly
    having the mutant powers of the original X-Men permanently.

