MOCKINGBIRD (BARBARA "BOBBI" MORSE) is a fictional character, a
superheroine appearing in American comic books published by 
Comics. Mockingbird first appeared in Astonishing Tales #6 in 1971 as
a supporting character and eventual love interest of Ka-Zar. She is soon
revealed to be a highly trained agent of S.H.I.E.L.D., as well as a Ph.D
in biology. She first uses the moniker "Mockingbird" in  Team-Up
#95 (July 1980), and goes on to be a member of several Avengers teams.

In 2012, Mockingbird was listed as #48 on IGN's "Top 50 Avengers".
She is portrayed by Adrianne Palicki in the Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._ TV
series.


Publication history

Mockingbird first appears in the Ka-Zar story in Astonishing Tales #6
(June 1971) written by Gerry Conway and pencilled by Barry Smith. The
earliest story to be written and drawn (by Len Wein and Neal Adams)
featuring the character was intended to appear in Savage Tales #2
(July 1971), but the series was canceled (a #2 and subsequent series
appeared much later) and new homes were found for the stories in the
ensuing months. In subsequent publications, creators including Roy
Thomas, Len Wein, Neal Adams, Mike Friedrich, Archie Goodwin, George
Evans, Steven Grant, and Mark Gruenwald made significant contributions
to the development of the character.

Mockingbird appeared as a regular character throughout the 2010-2013
New Avengers series, from issue #1 (August 2010) through its final
issue #34 (January 2013). She also co-starred in the 2010 series
Hawkeye & Mockingbird, which ran for 6 issues. Mockingbird became
regular character in the 2013 Secret Avengers series by Nick Spencer
and Luke Ross.

In September 2015, Mockingbird starred in the one-shot Mockingbird:
S.H.I.E.L.D. 50th Anniversary #1 by writer Chelsea Cain and artist
Joëlle Jones. That November,  announced the launch of her first
ongoing series by Cain and artist Kate Niemczyk in March 2016.


Fictional character biography

First appearances

The character who later becomes Mockingbird first appears in a short
sequence in Astonishing Tales #6 (June 1971) in which a frantic young
brunette arrives at the English country estate of Lord Kevin Plunder
(who is also known as "Ka-Zar"). Encountering the butler, she exclaims,
"Lord Kevin Plunder where is he? I must speak with him! ‘tis a matter—of
the fate of worlds!" In a brief second appearance in the same issue, the
character claims that "Lord Kevin Plunder and I have never met—and yet I
feel that I know him...You see, I can—can 'feel' people in my mind! And
I know that unless I speak with him—Lord Kevin will die!" Subsequent
creators continued to develop the character, and no later story makes
reference to any psychic abilities.

After this story Roy Thomas took over writing the Ka-Zar strip and in
his first story the as-yet-unnamed character makes another brief
appearance. The butler at Ka-Zar’s estate informs her that his employer
is currently in the Savage Land. The girl then vows to "walk the Savage
Land" for “[Ka-Zar’s] sake and the sake of the world”.

In Astonishing Tales #8 (Oct. 1971) Thomas is joined by co-writer Gary
Friedrich and the character begins to develop—her hair color changes to
blonde without explanation and her name is given as "Barbara". In
this issue Ka-Zar comes upon the site of a plane crash in the Savage
Land and encounters a survivor. This man explains that he and his
fiancée Barbara flew to the Savage Land seeking Ka-Zar. He mentions that
Barbara learned of Ka-Zar’s whereabouts from the butler at the Plunder
Estate, clearly indicating that Barbara is meant to be the same
character as the brunette from the previous two issues. Barbara is shown
later in the story; having parachuted from the plane before the crash
she is rescued by a group of World War II veterans who have been trapped
in the Savage Land for decades.

Gerry Conway briefly returned to co-write (with Roy Thomas) Barbara's
next appearance where she finally meets Ka-Zar and is reunited with her
fiancé (whose name is revealed as "Paul"). In the following issue
(written by Thomas alone) Ka-Zar leads the two characters through the
dangerous Savage Land.

Astonishing Tales #12 (June 1972) is a key early appearance for the
character, due in part to ’s decision to feature Man-Thing in this
issue. At this point Man-Thing had made only one previous appearance, in
the 1971 black-and-white magazine Savage Tales #1. A follow-up
seven–page Man-Thing story by writer Len Wein and artist Neal Adams was
commissioned for a version of Savage Tales #2 that was ultimately
never published. Finally seeing print in Astonishing Tales #12 the
sequence is presented as a flashback and an interlude between the main
action of the book.

One of the characters in the Wein/Adams story is a blonde female
scientist called "Dr. Barbara Morse". Morse is working on a research
project in the Florida Everglades called Project: Gladiator, which is an
attempt to replicate the Super-Soldier serum which was used to create
Captain America. This is the same research which Ted Sallis had
previously been working on when a flawed serum transformed him into the
Man-Thing. In the story Morse is abducted by AIM thugs and is later
liberated through the intervention of the Man-Thing.

Framing the flashback is a sequence of newer material by writer Roy
Thomas and artist John Buscema in which Barbara (now revealed to be "Dr.
Barbara Morse" and thus the character from the Wein/Adams Man-Thing
story) and Paul (now "Dr. Paul Allen") accompany Ka-Zar back to the
United States and explain that they sought him out so that he could help
them deal with the problems surrounding the appearance of the Man-Thing
in Florida.

In the next issue, the storyline is wrapped up and Paul reveals he is a
double agent working for A.I.M. It is also revealed for the first time
that Barbara has connections with S.H.I.E.L.D.; the spy agency asked her
to pretend to love Allen to "learn what [she] could" about his
activities with AIM. At the story’s end Paul dies at the hands of the
Man-Thing and Barbara expresses the hope that she can "go back to just
being a scientist again".

Bobbi Morse, Agent 19 of S.H.I.E.L.D.

Mike Friedrich took over from Roy Thomas to become writer of
Astonishing Tales with #15 (Dec. 1972). He introduces a new status-quo
in which Ka-Zar is living in New York and "lady biologist" and
S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Barbara (who now prefers to be called "Bobbi") Morse
is his constant companion.

Friedrich remained the writer of the various color Ka-Zar series for the
next two years and for most of that period he continued to
feature Morse as Ka-Zar’s sidekick and occasional love interest. In
these stories she is depicted as a fully trained S.H.I.E.L.D. agent.
Contemptuous of his jungle origins, she is Ka-Zar’s escort to the city
and modern life. Together she and Ka-Zar tackle threats such as the
Pusher, Gemini, Victorius, Gog, and the
Plunderer. As the series progresses she begins to wear a regular
costume of tinted-glasses, a red one-piece, and boots. Her S.H.I.E.L.D.
designation of "Agent 19" is revealed and she and Ka-Zar finally
kiss.

In 1974 the color Ka-Zar series left Astonishing Tales and was
relaunched in the Ka-Zar, Lord of the Hidden Jungle title. The strip
is set once again in the Savage Land and Morse is absent for the first
story. She returns in the third issue—explaining that Nick Fury had sent
her on a S.H.I.E.L.D. assignment to look into "El Tigre", a subversive
who is exploiting the energy crisis in South America. This leads her
to reluctantly travel back to the Savage Land, where she and Ka-Zar
defeat El Tigre and his ally Man-God together.

The introduction of Shanna the She-Devil into Ka-Zar’s supporting
cast changes Morse’s role in the stories of this period. Ka-Zar
expresses clear attraction to the more jungle-friendly Shanna from the
outset and Morse is cast as the secondary love interest. This
dynamic is most notable in Morse’s lone appearance in the Ka-Zar strip
in the black-and-white magazine Savage Tales (#8; Jan. 1975). Written
by Gerry Conway, the story depicts Morse leading Shanna and a group of
S.H.I.E.L.D. agents into the Savage Land where they work with Ka-Zar to
neutralise a threat to world security. During the course of the
adventure Morse realises that Ka-Zar’s affections lie with Shanna.
This story, first published in late-1974, is the last in which Morse
appears as a Ka-Zar supporting character.

Huntress to Mockingbird

A year later Mike Friedrich returned to the character in a 20-page story
with art by George Evans. Published in the one-shot black-and-white
magazine  Super Action #1 (Jan. 1976) the story is the first in
which Morse appears as a costumed super heroine and lead protagonist.
While operating as a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent she is recruited by a United
States Senator to look into corruption in a Latin American branch of the
espionage organization. To complete her mission she "drops out" of
S.H.I.E.L.D. and takes on the superhero identity of the "Huntress".

In a text piece in  Super Action #1 editor Archie Goodwin
explained how Morse came to be used for this story

 Super Action was originally designed as a bi-monthly
publication, but the economic recession of the mid-1970s forced 
to scale back their plans and the magazine was published as a
one-off. This meant that the plot of Huntress, originally planned as
a two-parter, had to be condensed before publication and no
follow-up stories by the same creators were ever produced.

Morse's next published appearance was  Team-Up #95 (July, 1980)
in which she dons a new costume and finally takes on the alias
"Mockingbird". This story explains that she has continued to look
into corruption in S.H.I.E.L.D. and in doing so has come to be hunted by
the organization which mistakes her for a criminal. Teaming up with
Spider-Man (and with assistance from S.H.I.E.L.D. director Nick Fury)
Mockingbird confronts Carl Delanden, a corrupt S.H.I.E.L.D. branch
director. In the ensuing battle she is shot by S.H.I.E.L.D. agents who
are following a previous order to subdue her at any cost. The story ends
with an unconscious, badly injured but exonerated Mockingbird left in
the care of Nick Fury.

In the letters column of that issue the series’ then assistant editor
Mark Gruenwald explained the creative origins of this new iteration of
Bobbi Morse:

The reference to the “why we abandoned the "'Huntress' moniker" is a nod
to the fact that ’s rival  had debuted a character with
the same name in the interim between  Super Action #1 and
 Team-Up #95. 's “Huntress”, originally the superhero daughter
of the Batman and Catwoman of Earth-Two, debuted in '' All Star Comics''
#69 and  Super-Stars #17 (both Dec. 1977).

Mockingbird and Hawkeye

[Mockingbird encounters Hawkeye. Art by Mark Gruenwald.]The character
next appeared in Gruenwald’s 1983 four-issue Hawkeye miniseries.
Fully recovered from her injuries, Mockingbird investigates corruption
at Cross Technological Enterprises, where Clint Barton/Hawkeye works as
security chief. Though the two initially come into conflict with each
other, they end up co-operating to fight the villain Crossfire and by
the series end they are shown to be seriously romantically involved,
having eloped together to the Pocono Mountains and apparently
married.

The miniseries reveals how Morse originally became involved with
S.H.I.E.L.D. recounting how she left her biology studies at Georgia Tech
to follow her "favorite prof" Wilma Calvin on the government's
Project: Gladiator. The research project was partly sponsored by
S.H.I.E.L.D. which led Morse to enroll in their spy school and graduate
at the top of her class. It is also revealed that she spent six months
convalescing in a private hospital after the injuries she suffered in
 Team-Up #95.

Gruenwald was editor of the Avengers title in late 1983 when writer
Roger Stern began to feature Hawkeye and Mockingbird as members of the
series supporting cast. In a short period Mockingbird moves back
into Avengers Mansion with Barton as he returns to active duty, she
is formally introduced to the team as his wife, the Vision then
proposes that Hawkeye and Mockingbird establish a second Avengers team
on the west coast, and the two move out to Los Angeles.

West Coast Avengers

This leads in to the 1984 four-issue West Coast Avengers limited
series, also written by Stern and edited by Gruenwald. In this series
Mockingbird becomes a full-fledged Avenger as she assists her husband in
setting up a new branch of the organization.

West Coast Avengers became a regular series in 1985 and Steve
Englehart, the series writer for its first 42 issues, featured
Mockingbird heavily as one of the main cast members of the book. A year
into the series Mockingbird begins to wear a modified version of her
original costume, designed by series artist Al Milgrom.

Over the latter course of his run, Englehart developed a storyline in
which the relationship between Hawkeye and Mockingbird is put under
serious strain. When the West Coast Avengers are transported to the old
west of 1876 the Phantom Rider (Lincoln Slade) abducts, drugs, and
brainwashes Mockingbird into forgetting her original life and convinces
her she is in love with Slade (and by implication, raping her). After
breaking free of his control, Mockingbird seeks revenge on the Rider,
and is shown allowing him to plunge to his death off of a cliff.

Hawkeye learns that Mockingbird let the Phantom Rider die, and harshly
disapproves of her actions which leads Mockingbird to leave both Hawkeye
and the Avengers. For a time she and ex-Avengers Tigra and Moon
Knight operate as a small fighting unit and together they have various
adventures including a battle with the High Evolutionary and an
encounter with the modern-day Phantom Rider who is possessed by his 19th
century ancestor. In one story Mockingbird’s arrest of the Digger
causes a rift between the West Coast Avengers and the Night Shift.
Mockingbird later reconciles with the no-longer-possessed Phantom
Rider.

John Byrne became writer and artist of West Coast Avengers in 1989 and
in his first story Mockingbird returns and admits to inadvertently
betraying the team. She later explains that she was duped by a group
who claimed to be connected to S.H.I.E.L.D. into revealing security
information about their headquarters for a "contingency" plan to
neutralise the Vision in the event that he should try to take over the
world once again. In fact the plan is put into operation immediately and
when Mockingbird realizes this she rushes to the West Coast Avenger’s
headquarters only to arrive too late, the group having already abducted
and dismantled the android. The group is revealed to be a consortium
of international security services and though the Vision is eventually
restored his memory and personality are erased.

Later Mockingbird tracks down Clint Barton (Hawkeye) and makes an
attempt at reconciliation, admitting that she still loves him. During
their discussion Barton reveals that they had previously decided to
divorce. Hawkeye and Mockingbird then travel to Milwaukee to look in
to the appearance of a group calling themselves the "Great Lakes
Avengers". Upon investigation the couple decides to stay in Milwaukee to
train the amateur superhero group and work on their relationship.

Mockingbird’s next regular appearances are as a supporting character in
the Hawkeye strip in Avengers Spotlight, in a storyline written by
Steve Gerber in which she aids her husband as he takes on the Los
Angeles Asian crime lord Lotus.

Avengers West Coast

Roy Thomas returned to writing the character when he and his wife Dann
became co-writers of the rechristened Avengers West Coast title in
1990. Mockingbird first makes a brief reappearance in the title when she
attends an Avengers West Coast team meeting and stands for election to
return to the team, being voted in as an "alternate member" (effectively
a reserve member). Hawkeye (who is already a full member, having
returned to the series a year earlier) admits he did not vote for her
and describes her as his "estranged wife". Mockingbird then returns to
Detroit.

In a later storyline Morse contacts Barton and states that she is
returning to Los Angeles from Detroit to discuss matters with him.
She is then reunited with her husband while he is in the field as
Hawkeye, joining him and the Avengers West Coast on a mission after
which Mockingbird begins to once again make regular appearances as a
cast member of the book. Mockingbird later reveals to Hawkeye that their
divorce is almost final and Ultron abducts her and uses her thought
patterns and personality to create his second robotic 'wife' Alkhema,
the two rekindling their romance after she is liberated.

The originally intended interpretation of some of these events is
changed by a story that is published 17 years later. New Avengers: The
Reunion #2 (May 2009) asserts that just prior to her abduction by
Ultron, Mockingbird was replaced by a Skrull impersonator, and thus the
"Mockingbird" who appears between Avengers West Coast vol. 1, #89/90
(Dec. 1992/Jan. 1993) and Secret Invasion #8 (Jan. 2009) should no
longer be considered the genuine article.

The reconciliation between Hawkeye and Mockingbird is short-lived as in
late 1993 Thomas has the character sacrifice her life to save her
husband from Mephisto in the centennial issue of Avengers West
Coast.

The Avengers West Coast title was canceled two issues later. The
storyline depicted how the team, reeling from the events surrounding
Mockingbird's death, is ultimately forced to disband.

Post-death

In 1998 writer Kurt Busiek briefly revived the character in the
Avengers volume 3 series where she appears as a reanimated corpse, a
member of the Legion of the Unliving, part of the Grim Reaper's plot to
destroy the Avengers.

In 1999's Thunderbolts Annual 2000, writers Busiek and Fabian Nicieza
have Mockingbird send a message from the afterlife that results in the
resurrection of Hellcat. Her reasons for being in Hell are unclear,
though she denies it is due to her previous refusal to save the Phantom
Rider, hinting that her presence in Hell is serving some purpose. In
the subsequent Hellcat limited series by writer Steve Englehart,
Mockingbird is depicted fighting endless battles in Hell.

The character next appears in the tongue-in-cheek 2006 X-Statix
Presents: Dead Girl miniseries by writer Peter Milligan. In this series
she is depicted as residing in Heaven, where she is an active member of
a book club that also includes Dead Girl, Gwen Stacy and Moira
MacTaggert. She is recruited by Doctor Strange and Dead Girl to help
defeat Mr. Pitiful and his group of resurrected supervillains. She
returns to Heaven at the series conclusion and no reference is made to
her previous appearances in Hell.

Return

In a 2009 interview  editor and writer Jim McCann revealed how the
decision to resurrect Mockingbird was made creatively:

Bendis first teases at Mockingbird's return when, at the beginning of
"Secret Invasion", a spaceship crash-lands in the Savage Land and a
large group of superheroes emerges from the wreckage, among whom is a
character who looks exactly like Mockingbird. All the members of
this group present themselves as the genuine article—they claim that at
some point in the past they were each abducted and replaced by Skrull
imposters, the Skrulls being a race of alien shape-shifters. Clint
Barton, who is present at the scene (and at this point goes by the code
name "Ronin") believes this "Mockingbird"'s claims to be his wife
because she is able to tell him the significance of the date "October
12" to their relationship. The date would have been the birthday of the
couple’s (previously unmentioned) miscarried child, which—it is
explained—was conceived at some point during their joint career as
Avengers. Barton initially defends this "Mockingbird" from the
suspicions of other superheroes, but when she is revealed to be a Skrull
imposter he kills her in a fit of rage.

Later in the series Iron Man finds a Skrull ship in orbit which
genuinely contains various individuals who had been abducted and
replaced by the Skrulls. The real Mockingbird is revealed to be among
them and she tearfully reunites with Barton.

In a subsequent issue of Avengers: The Initiative writers Christos
Gage and Dan Slott include Mockingbird among a group of Skrull abductees
who attend a support meeting about their experience.

Back in action

After the character’s return in the 2008 "Secret Invasion" storyline,
Bendis began to use Mockingbird regularly in the New Avengers title.
She joins the team (in which her husband, still using the code-name
"Ronin", is also a member), and with them she fights the Hood's gang of
super-villains, learns Spider-Man’s true identity, and battles
Dormammu.

Mockingbird gains a new costume in 2009's New Avengers: The Reunion
miniseries, which was pencilled by David Lopez and Jo Chen and written
by the editor and writer who had previously advocated for Morse's
return: Jim McCann. The plot of the series involves Mockingbird and
Clint Barton/Ronin teaming-up to take on A.I.M. Scientist Supreme Monica
Rappaccini. During the story Morse reveals that she and a group of
fellow former S.H.I.E.L.D. agents who were also Skrull abductees have
formed a new espionage organization—the "World Counter-terrorism Agency"
or "W.C.A." (the abbreviation being a nod to Barton and Morse’s former
"West Coast Avengers" team).

This series also reveals that Mockingbird was replaced by a Skrull just
prior to her abduction by Ultron. This is a plot-point in the series
as it establishes that prior to her abduction Barton and Morse were in
the process of being divorced and so she is technically no longer
married to him. By the story's conclusion they rekindle their
relationship, though they decide to remain unmarried.

In one subsequent New Avengers storyline Mockingbird is the only
member left standing when a device invented by Jonas Harrow inhibits the
rest of her teammates superpowers. Morse is forced to fight the
entire Wrecking Crew alone in Times Square and is eventually defeated by
them. However she later returns to the scene with an Avengers
Quinjet to rescue her colleagues.

Another plotline involves Clint Barton/Ronin vowing to kill Norman
Osborn. Morse and the other New Avengers object to the idea so Barton
attempts the assassination alone and in secret. He ultimately fails and
is captured by the Dark Avengers, leading Mockingbird to mount a
rescue mission with other Avengers and liberate Barton.

In March 2010  announced that a new Hawkeye & Mockingbird
ongoing series would be launched in June 2010, produced by the New
Avengers: The Reunion creative team of writer Jim McCann and artist
David Lopez. Promotional interviews revealed that the premise of the
series involved Morse and Clint Barton (once again under the code-name
"Hawkeye") working together as agents of the World Counter-terrorism
Agency. They are both also still members of the New
Avengers, although Barton soon leaves the team because
he prefers to work on the main Avengers team, saying that he was only
with the New Avengers to spend time with his wife.

During a raid on a warehouse that is revealed to be the location of
H.A.M.M.E.R.'s attempt to reorganize after the defeat of Norman Osborn,
Bobbi is mortally injured in a shooting despite Spider-Man's attempts to
save her, forcing her teammates to evacuate her to the hospital.
While Mockingbird lies in hospital in critical condition, Nick Fury
contacts the team and gives her a top secret serum that was created by
the Germans in 1959 and has recently been rediscovered by the
H.A.M.M.E.R. agents; a combination of the Super Soldier Serum that
turned Steve Rogers into Captain America, and the Infinity Formula that
slowed Fury's aging. The Formula saves her life, but Nick warns the New
Avengers that he cannot predict the consequences of turning Mockingbird
into a combination of himself and Rogers.New Avengers vol. 2 #13
(June 2011), .

After being injected with the Formula during the "Fear Itself"
storyline, Mockingbird makes a quick and complete recovery from her
injury, and exhibits powers similar to Steve Rogers. She is quite
relieved and happy to be alive, and fights the Serpent's forces in New
York with vigor. After she witnesses Avengers Tower fall, her feelings
of happiness are sobered, and she vows to defeat Sin.

Hawkeye and Mockingbird remain divorced, going their separate paths.

 NOW!

As part of the 2012  NOW! branding, Mockingbird appears as part of
S.H.I.E.L.D.'s new Secret Avengers roster, making her debut appearance
while helping Nick Fury, Jr. capture Taskmaster. During that mission,
she uses S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Camo-Tech to disguise herself as Aloysius
Thorndrake of the Shadow Council. Mockingbird goes to A.I.M. Island
to assist Taskmaster in helping make contact between the rogue Iron
Patriot drones and James Rhodes.

All-New, All-Different 

As part of the All-New, All-Different  branding, Mockingbird helps
Spider-Man when they pursue Zodiac's Leo Sect down the highways of
Shanghai, China as they give a status report to Nick Fury, Jr. When they
catch the lead Leo Sect member, Mockingbird accuses him of adhering to
his "no-one dies around me" idealism after using an antidote to counter
the lead Leo Sect member's suicide pill. Spider-Man tells her he's not
so naive anymore and simply wants to save everyone he can.

After recovering the Webware from Pisces, Aquarius, and Cancer,
Spider-Man gives the status of the mission to Mockingbird and Nick Fury
Jr. Mockingbird tells Spider-Man that Leo is still being interrogated
and hasn't snitched yet.


Powers, abilities, and equipment

Mockingbird is a trained S.H.I.E.L.D. agent who graduated at the top of
her class and as such she can be expected to be proficient in
several forms of hand-to-hand combat and familiar with a wide range of
weapons. The character usually uses a pair of batons which can be
combined to form a single bō-staff in combat, weapons with which she has
great expertise. She also possesses a PhD in biology.

To cope with a mortal injury she sustained in a mission, Mockingbird was
injected with an experimental serum combining the Super Soldier Serum
that gave Captain America his strength and the Infinity Formula that has
slowed Nick Fury's aging. The obvious consequence of this was that her
injuries were healed, but Fury admitted his uncertainty about the
formula's long-term consequences on her biology. Thus far, she has
exhibited greatly enhanced physical strength, healing and agility.


Other versions

Mockingbird has been depicted in other fictional universes. Some of
these include:

The Last Avengers Story

Set in a distant possible future, writer Peter David’s 1995 miniseries
The Last Avengers Story depicts Mockingbird as an embittered retiree
who cares for her blinded husband Clint Barton. At the story’s
conclusion Mockingbird and Hawkeye return to duty and help the Avengers
defeat Ultron, Grim Reaper, and Kang.

Fantastic Four: Big Town

Writer Steve Englehart revisited the Mockingbird and Hawkeye marriage in
the 2001 miniseries Fantastic Four: Big Town. Set in a world where the
technological advances of Reed Richards have filtered down throughout
society the series shows Mockingbird and Hawkeye as newlyweds and
members of the Manhattan-based Avengers. Their relationship comes under
familiar strain when Mockingbird kills an assailant in defence of her
husband and Hawkeye disapproves of her actions, questioning their
necessity. Later in the story Mockingbird refrains from killing
Quicksilver who then goes on to kill Hawkeye. At the story’s end the
Avengers consider reviving Barton by placing his brain patterns in the
body of the android Vision.

"House of M"

Bobbi Morse appears as a member of Luke Cage's Human Resistance group
nicknamed the "Avengers" in writer Christos Gage’s miniseries House of
M: Avengers. In this story, set in the alternate timeline of the "House
of M" storyline, Morse is a former S.H.I.E.L.D. agent who was phased out
from the organization when mutants became the dominant species. She
becomes a costumed vigilante and is romantically involved with Clint
Barton/Hawkeye. In the penultimate issue of the series the
character leaves to seek asylum in Wakanda while Hawkeye stays
behind.

 Zombies

Mockingbird appears as one of the zombified heroes attacking the
Punisher in  Zombies vs. The Army of Darkness #2.


In other media

Television

-   Mockingbird appears in the animated series The Avengers: Earth's
    Mightiest Heroes, voiced by Elizabeth Daily. She is
    a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent with ties to Hawkeye and Black Widow, taking
    their place in Special Operations when the former joined the
    Avengers and the latter went rogue. She is captured by the Skrulls
    and impersonated by the Skrull Queen, but escapes with Captain
    America and other prisoners.

[Adrianne Palicki as Morse in Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._]

-   Bobbi Morse debuted in the Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._ episode "A Hen
    in the Wolf House", portrayed by guest star Adrianne
    Palicki. Palicki was promoted to the series' main cast with the
    episode "Aftershocks". A S.H.I.E.L.D. agent, she was
    previously married to mercenary Lance Hunter. The two eventually get
    back together while becoming full-time field agents for S.H.I.E.L.D.
    Director Coulson, until they leave the organization following an
    incident in Russia during the episode "Parting Shot".
-   A Mockingbird series was first in development at ABC Family in
    2011, and after the successful introduction of the character in
    Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._, a spin-off, titled Most Wanted and
    starring Palicki as Morse and Nick Blood as Hunter, received a pilot
    order from ABC in August 2015.

Video games

-   Mockingbird appears in Ultimate  vs. Capcom 3 in Hawkeye's
    ending as a member of the new West Coast Avengers.
-   Mockingbird appears in the game : Avengers Alliance.
-   Mockingbird is featured in several cards in the mobile game :
    War of Heroes.
-   Mockingbird is a playable character in the mobile game :
    Future Fight.

