MONICA RAMBEAU is a fictional character, a superheroine appearing in
American comic books published by . Initially known as
CAPTAIN , the character became a leader of the Avengers. She later
used the codenames PHOTON, PULSAR, and, beginning in 2013, SPECTRUM.


Publication history

The character was created by writer Roger Stern and artist John Romita,
Jr.. She first appeared in The Amazing Spider-Man Annual #16 (1982).

Talking about the visual features of the character, Romita noted that
originally the character was intended to look like Pam Grier but

After her debut, the character appeared sporadically in The Avengers
#227-347. She received a one-shot title, Captain  vol. 2, #1
(Nov. 1989). She also starred in Avengers: Unplugged #5. She
returned in The Avengers vol. 3 with sporadic appearances between
issues #1-59. During this run, she also appeared in Avengers: Infinity
#1-4 (Sept.-Dec. 2000), Maximum Security #2-3 (both Jan. 2001), Thor
vol. 2 #30 (Jan. 2001) and the Avengers Annual in 2001.

In 2009, Rambeau appeared in the limited series,  Divas (partly
inspired by Sex and the City). She was one of the main characters,
alongside Black Cat, Hellcat, and Firestar.

After a cameo in Great Lakes Avengers #1 and New Thunderbolts #8-9,
she appeared in Order #5-6. She starred in Nextwave #1-12. Following
the cancellation of that series, Rambeau was seen briefly in Civil
War, She-Hulk, and as a main character in  Divas #1-4 and
Heralds #1-5. She appears Iron Age #1 (2011), Captain 
#7-8, Journey into Mystery #649, and Age of Ultron.

Starting in September 2013, she began appearing as one of the lead
characters in the  NOW! relaunch of Mighty Avengers, acting as
the team's field leader under the new codename Spectrum.


Fictional character biography

Origin

Monica Rambeau was born in New Orleans, Louisiana to Frank and Maria
Rambeau. She was a lieutenant in the New Orleans harbor patrol, and
operated as a cargo ship captain. Trying to prevent the creation of a
dangerous weapon, Rambeau is exposed to extra-dimensional energy. As a
result, she is able to convert her body to energy. She decides to use
her powers to fight crime and named herself as Captain .

Joining the Avengers

Rambeau sought out the Avengers for help in mastering her new powers and
became a member-in-training of their group, soon aiding them against
Egghead. Befriended and mentored by Avengers veterans Captain
America and the Wasp, Captain  soon graduated to full membership
after the battle against Plantman. She was the first
African-American heroine of the team.

She assisted Doctor Strange and the Scarlet Witch in battling
Dracula.

Two of Rambeau's enemies were super-powered psychiatrist Moonstone
(Karla Sofen), and Moonstone's powerful pawn Blackout (Marcus Daniels),
who wielded the Darkforce. Captain  first encounters them when the
Avengers oppose the duo's escape from incarceration in Project: PEGASUS.
After that, Rambeau temporarily loses her ability to transform back to
human form during a battle against Dr. Eric Paulson, in which she fights
alongside Spider-Man and Starfox.

Moonstone and Blackout return as members of Baron (Helmut) Zemo's
Masters of Evil, participating in an occupation of Avengers Mansion and
trapping Rambeau in the Darkforce dimension. Rambeau was able to escape
in time to help retake the Mansion. During the battle, Moonstone is
crippled and Blackout dies. Another of Rambeau's major early foes
was the murderous interstellar pirate Nebula, who shanghaied Rambeau
into space for an extended period before she reunites with the
Avengers.

Captain  also took part in battles against the Beyonder, a
confused Jean Grey, Kang the Conqueror, Attuma, and
Grandmaster.

Leader of the Avengers

Rambeau later replaces the Wasp as leader of the Avengers,
commanding the attacks against the X-Men, the Olympian Gods, and
the Super-Adaptoid.

When honorary Avengers member Marrina transforms into the gigantic sea
monster Leviathan, Captain  leads the hunt for the creature.
During the battle that followed, Rambeau makes contact with sea water
while in her electrical form and accidentally conducts herself across
the surface of the ocean, depleting her energies so gravely and
dispersing her atoms so widely that she barely regains physical form.
She emerges as a frail, withered husk of a woman devoid of
super-powers.

Regaining her powers

After retiring from the team, Rambeau regains first her physical
health, and eventually her powers, initially developing the ability to
manipulate mechanical energy for various effects. She resumes
crimefighting, facing foes such as Brazilian crime lord Kristina Ramos,
Moonstone, and Powderkeg. At the same time, she serves as a cargo
ship captain in her friend Ron Morgan's shipping company before starting
her own charter business.

Rambeau stays connected with the Avengers and serves as a reservist,
sometimes assuming leadership duties in the absence of the current
chair. She helps repel an Atlantean invasion of the surface world
and assists in the Acts of Vengeance, which involved a concentrated,
multi-villain attack on Earth's superheroes, or in the Terminus
Factor. Rambeau leads a reserve substitute roster during the team's
first United Nations-backed reorganization. She takes on another
leadership role during the Kree-Shi'ar war and leads an Avengers
delegation.

When a group of aliens calling themselves Starblasters try to push the
moon away from Earth, Quasar assembles a team with some of the most
powerful heroes of the world, recruiting Rambeau, Carol Danvers, Black
Bolt, Hyperion, Ikaris, Darkstar, Vanguard and Perun. During this
adventure, her original powers gradually regenerated, fully returning
when the alien Stranger accelerates the process.

When Genis becomes an adventurer, he is known as Captain  like his
father before him—which Rambeau resents. After she, Starfox and Genis
team up to defeat the Controller, Genis tries to concede the Captain
 title to Rambeau since he felt she was more worthy of it. Rambeau
declines out of respect for the Mar-Vell legacy and adopts a new alias
as Photon.

Avengers Return

After the return of the main avengers from the pocket universe created
by Franklin Richards almost all the current and former Avengers members
were trapped in a curse created by Morgan Le Fay where they served her
as soldiers in a guard called Queen's Vengeance. Due to her strong
loyalty to the group Rambeau, under the name Daystar, was one of the
first avengers to recover their will and rebel against the
sorceress.

Later when Photon was attacked by the Wrecking Crew in the Mardi Gras of
New Orleans, she asked the Avengers for help being involved in an
adventure in Arkon's world with the group and her old fellow, Black
Knight.

For a time, Rambeau's mother intercepts her Avengers calls out of fear
for her daughter's safety. After discovering this deception, Rambeau
leads an unofficial force of Avengers against the 'Infinites', who plan
on relocating the galaxy. Next Photon was involved in the events of
Maximum Security, and fights with her former teammates against
Bloodwraith, and Lord Templar and Pagan.

After that, Rambeau was helping the team in the deep-space monitoring
station with Quasar and Living Lightning, called into action in
Kang's War, (supporting also her friend Janet Van Dyne and advising
the new recruit Triathlon), in the world crisis caused by
Zodiac, and when the Scarlet Witch suffers a nervous breakdown and
attacks the Avengers.

From Pulsar to Nextwave

When Genis-Vell wants to establish a new identity for himself, he begins
calling himself Photon. Rambeau confronts him, but she decides to let
Genis keep the Photon alias after she came up with a name she liked
better: Pulsar.

Rambeau later leads the Nextwave team, part of the Highest
Anti-Terrorism Effort (H.A.T.E.), against Unusual Weapons of Mass
Destruction created by the Beyond Corporation© where she avoided
using a code name and wore a new uniform.

During the Superhero Civil War, Rambeau is a member of Captain America's
Secret Avengers and registers as a member of the Initiative.

When Brother Voodoo asks for Rambeau's help in tracking down some evil
sorcerers, she reveals a former relationship with Brother Voodoo to
Black Cat, Hellcat, and Firestar. Despite her breaking it off, Voodoo
still has feelings for Rambeau. She agrees to aid him, rekindling their
relationship in the process.

She later attends Emma Frost's birthday party in Las Vegas where she
helps solve a cosmic crisis involving Frankie Raye.

The group continues to meet partly over their support of Firestar, who
had battled and defeated breast cancer. She assists Carol Danvers,
in an investigation in the Gulf of Mexico, where Rambeau indicates that
she is still fearful of using her powers under the water since her
traumatic experience in battle against Marrina Smallwood, and aids
Iron Man in the Avengers' deep-space monitoring station against ancient
Viking monsters who claimed to be the Emperor of Mars.

 Now!

During the Infinity storyline, Monica Rambeau has taken the name of
Spectrum as she chases after the criminal Blue Streak. Even the police
officers that arrested him are impressed by her latest alias as well as
her new costume. Spectrum returns to a specialist shop in New York where
a man named Luc sells designer superhero costumes. He mentions that
someone is waiting for her in the next room. Monica recognizes the man,
though apparently all he wants to do is talk and ask for help. Spectrum
hears the explosions when Proxima Midnight begins her attack on the
city. Her mysterious guest says he cannot be seen in America, and needs
her help for a mysterious mission, but she is adamant...he is in a
costume shop, and if he wants her help, he'll put on a costume and come
help her.

Monica became field leader of Luke Cage's new Mighty Avengers team in
the wake of the event.

During the "Last Days" part of the Secret Wars storyline, Spectrum
devises a plan to destroy Earth-1610 to keep it from colliding with
Earth-616. In desperation during the two weeks before the end of the
world, Spectrum channels her full power and goes to destroy
Earth-1610. However, right before she successfully destroys the
other Earth, she spots a group of children who live there, causing her
to hesitate for only a moment, long enough for Ultimate Reed Richards to
capture her.


Powers and abilities

Due to bombardment by extra-dimensional energies, Rambeau can transform
herself into any form of energy within the electromagnetic spectrum.
Among the many energy forms she has assumed and is able to control are
cosmic rays, gamma rays, X-rays, ultraviolet radiation, visible light,
electricity, infrared radiation, microwaves, radio waves, and neutrinos.
By assuming an energy-form, she gains all of that energy's properties.

She is invisible and intangible in many of her energy forms (the most
frequent exception being visible light), and is capable of flight in all
her energy forms (reaching velocities up to and including light speed).
She also has the ability to project these energies from her body while
she is in human form (only one wavelength of energy at a time), usually
in the form of energy blasts from her hands. She mentally controls both
the type and quantity of energy she wishes to transmit. The maximum
amount of energy she can transmit at a given time is unknown. Rambeau
can also divert small amounts of various energies for employment as
force beams, which have the equivalent to 300 tons of TNT of explosive
force. A variation of this ability enables her to project light-based
holographic illusions of herself. Rambeau has also shown the ability to
split her energy form into several miniature energy forms that are under
her mental command, each miniature Rambeau is able to react and fly at
light-speed.

When she encounters a new or unfamiliar energy, Rambeau can often
duplicate it given enough time for analysis. Rambeau tends to be
physically insubstantial in her energy forms, though with concentration
and effort she can sometimes perform tasks such as briefly grasping an
object, either by partially solidifying or by applying some sort of
force to the object in question.

When Rambeau temporarily lost her original powers after a massive energy
expenditure, she developed the ability to shunt any mechanical
energy directed towards her through a dimensional interface surrounding
her body, granting her increased strength, resistance to impact, and the
ability to fly. After Rambeau asked Reed Richards to examine these new
abilities, he theorized that she accessed the same dimension from which
she derived her energy powers to create the interface.

Rambeau has strong leadership skills and law enforcement experience due
to both of her time as a police officer and former leader of the
Avengers. She is an excellent markswoman, unarmed combatant, detective,
and swimmer with extensive nautical expertise. She has received Harbor
Patrol training, and Avengers training in unarmed combat by Captain
America.

Limitations

Rambeau is able to retain her energy form for several hours with no ill
effects. She can only transform herself into one wavelength of
energy at a time, but she can transform between one energy-state and
another in a fraction of a second. Extensive energy transformation and
manipulation can be physically taxing once she re-assumes her physical
form. Rambeau can also be forcibly reverted to her original form by
other forces.


Other versions

Age of Ultron

During the Age of Ultron storyline, Rambeau appears amongst the
superhero resistance against Ultron.

Earth-A

Like other inhabitants of this reality, Monica Rambeau would
periodically visit Earth-616 for vacations. Due to the nature of the
interdimensional travel, she received duplicate powers to her
counterpart and would masquerade as her. It is implied that the
inexperienced Rambeau appearing around that time in Black Panther was,
in fact, this alternate. Rambeau claimed that the main reason she
visited Earth-616 was not because she would gain superpowers but because
her parents were still alive in that reality.

Forever Yesterday

Monica Rambeau is featured in New Warriors #11–13, in an alternate
reality that is listed as Earth 9105, where she goes under the code-name
of Sceptre. She is part of a murderous version of the Avengers, who
enforce the will of the tyrannical female Sphinx. She briefly makes an
appearance in Avengers Forever #11–12 when she and several other
alternate, evil Avengers are brought forth in order to battle the main
protagonists.

JLA/Avengers

Photon is shown as a reservist member of the Avengers and aids them
during the searching of the twelve items of power, fighting against the
Green Lantern. After the battle for the last item in the Savage
Land, Monica takes part in one annual JLA-Avengers meeting at the
Justice League Satellite in the new merged world that the villain Krona
created, being unaware of the changes. After that she appeared
fighting along with other Captain  of both universes (Mar-Vell,
Shazam!) in the final battle.

 Zombies

Monica Rambeau appears in  Zombies vs. The Army of Darkness
issue #3 in her Nextwave uniform, fighting alongside the rest of the
team against a zombified Power Pack.

MC2

Although Monica Rambeau has never appeared in ' future-era
MC2 line, the comics feature her daughter by Derek Freeman, Blacklight,
who first appears in A-Next #9.

What If?_

Monica Rambeau has a brief appearance in "What if the Scarlet Witch
Hadn't Acted Alone?", What If? Avengers Disassembled (2006).

