MOONGLOW is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by . She was a member of a team of superheroes,
Squadron Supreme.

The Supreme Squadron members exist in numerous alternate universes, but
their main and original timeline is Earth-712.


Publication history

Like most of the newer Redeemer characters she is based on existing 
Comics team, The Detroit-based Justice League of America, in this case
the character of Gypsy.


Melissa Hanover

MELISSA HANOVER was recruited by Nighthawk to serve in his team of
subversive super powered "Redeemers" to fight the influence of the
Squadron Supreme's "Utopia Program". She had the ability to project
illusions. Melissa Hanover was rather insecure, and used her powers to
make herself look beautiful and glamorous, to hide her unattractive
appearance. She joined the Squadron to help overthrow it from within.
She stole the plans for the behavior modification device, then openly
joined the Redeemers' battle against the Squadron Supreme.

When the team left to confront the Nth Man, Melissa Hanover turned over
the Moonglow identity to Arcanna and agreed to let Arcanna go in her
place.


Arcanna

ARCANNA JONES, working initially as a medium, started an activity as a
professional crimefighter and adventurer, and the Squadron Supreme asked
her to join the group as ARCANNA. With the Squadron, she was brainwashed
by the Overmind, and battled the Defenders. She was cured, and battled
the Overmind and Null, the Living Darkness alongside the Defenders.

She joined in the Squadron decision to assume control of their Earth's
United States, but abstained on the Squadron vote to use the behavior
modification machine and become involved in its "Utopia Program." She
learned she was pregnant and felt she could not take an active role. Her
husband and children were captured by the Institute of Evil. With the
Squadron, she defeated the Institute and freed the captives, and told
the Squadron she was pregnant.

Later, during the Nth Man's attack (who tried to consume the Squadron's
universe) she tried to re-join the team. Because she'd had a child just
a week previously, Arcanna was forbidden by Power Princess to go; so
using her own illusionary abilities, she assumed the guise of MOONGLOW.
With the Squadron, she attempted to save her universe from the Nth Man;
however in the process, her son became the new Nth Man, exchanging minds
with Thomas Lightner.

The Squadron (and Arcanna) saved their universe, paying the price of
exile in an alternate universe (the mainstream  Universe, also
named Earth-616). While there, they met Quasar and relocated to Project:
Pegasus.


Powers and abilities

Moonglow had the ability to cast convincing three dimensional
audio-visual-olfactory-tactile illusions by modifying the perceptions of
other beings. She was able to alter her appearance as well as others',
in order to manipulate or confuse. She cannot maintain her illusions
when unconscious, nor can she affect machines, such as cameras. She
could use her powers to create the illusion of artificial high or low
gravity (the latter of which caused Arcanna extreme distress while she
was in labor).

She is a fair hand-to-hand combatant, having received coaching from
Nighthawk and Power Princess.

