MOON-BOY is a fictional character that appears in comic books published
by . Moon-Boy resembles a small, furry humanoid. He is best
known as the constant companion of Devil Dinosaur.


Publication history

Being primarily a supporting character to Devil Dinosaur, Moon-Boy has
yet to be the lead character in a comic book series of his own. His
appearances in print have been invariably linked to the appearances of
Devil Dinosaur. Moon-Boy made his debut in Devil Dinosaur #1 (April
1978) and was a continuing character in all nine issues of the series'
run. Since the cancellation of the original Devil Dinosaur series,
Moon-Boy's appearances have coincided with Devil Dinosaur's various
cameo appearances, supporting roles, and one-shot comics.

The team of Devil Dinosaur and Moon-Boy was created by artist Jack Kirby
who scripted and penciled all issues of the first Devil Dinosaur
series. Kirby's intent was for the duo to be inhabitants of Earth's
prehistoric past as evidenced by a title on the cover of Devil
Dinosaur #1 which proclaims Moon-Boy to be the "first human." Some
later writers of the characters retconned the pair to be mutants from an
alien world, while more recent writers have written them as being from
Dinosaur World (Earth-78411), a planet located in a parallel universe
contained within the  Multiverse. The main continuity in the
 Multiverse where Kirby intended the pair to originate from is
sometimes referred to as "Earth-616."


Fictional character biography

Moon-Boy was born into a tribe of intelligent, fur-covered, ape-like
humanoids known as the "Small-Folk". The Small-Folk were
hunter-gatherers that made their home in the "Valley of Flame", a region
of numerous active volcanoes. Moon-Boy's connection with Devil Dinosaur
began as a young boy when he came across a female dinosaur being
attacked by a rival tribe known as the "Killer-Folk". The female was
killed, as well as two of her three young. The third did not die
however, but was transformed when the Killer-Folk attempted to burn him
to death with their torches. The fire permanently scorched the young
dinosaur's skin bright red. Moon-Boy cared for the orphaned creature
after its ordeal and named him "Devil".

Ostracized from his tribe because of his association with Devil,
Moon-Boy and his red companion became wanderers. Devil and Moon-Boy's
wanderings eventually took them to distant times and worlds. First, they
encountered extraterrestrials. Next they encountered Godzilla, who
had been transported to Moonboy and Devil Dinosaur's alternate Earth.
In time, they encountered the Fallen Angels. They traveled to Earth,
and temporarily took up residence with the Fallen Angels in New York
City. After several trips to the modern era of Earth-616 via magic,
time travel, and teleportation by mutants, the pair eventually settled
in the Savage Land of Earth-616.

While residing in the Savage Land, the forgotten world was invaded by
the power hungry Roxxon Oil Company. Ka-Zar, ruler of the Savage Land,
recruited Moon-Boy and Devil Dinosaur to help fight off the invasion,
and Moon-Boy proved his worth as fighter during the following war.

Later, Moon-Boy became separated from Devil when he was removed from the
Savage Land and taken to New York City by the Heroes for Hire mercenary
team who were hired by S.H.I.E.L.D. scientists to retrieve the "Homo
habilis" so that they might study his DNA.

Moon-Boy would remain under the custody of S.H.I.E.L.D. for some time,
which drove Devil into a sort of saurian depression causing him to
refuse to hunt or even to eat food given to him. This came to the
attention of Stegron, the dinosaur man, who feared for the life of the
beast, and left the Savage Land secretly to wage war upon S.H.I.E.L.D.
Using an army of reanimated dinosaurs, Stegron attacked base after base
searching for Moon-Boy, and was only stopped by the Fifty State
Initiative. However, once learning the motive behind Stegron's attacks,
the Initiative recruit Reptil, smuggled Moon-Boy out of the country and
returned him to the Savage Land, where he was reunited with his
companion.


Powers and abilities

Moon-Boy has lifelong experience at foraging and general survival in the
wild. He is somehow able to understand the guttural noises of his
companion Devil Dinosaur as language. Moon-Boy has little experience
with civilized culture and/or behavior. He is extremely hairy, with
thick fur covering all but his palms, soles, and face. Moon-Boy often
goes about unclothed; his thick pelt of animal-like hair provides
sufficient protection from the elements.


Other versions

Earth X

In the alternate universe, Earth-9997, of the Earth X series, Moon-Boy's
skeleton is seen on the Blue Area of the Moon atop the skeleton of Devil
Dinosaur and Wolverine is revealed to be a descendant of Moon-Boy.

Mutant X

In the Mutant X series alternate universe, "Moon Knight Boy" is a member
of Earth-1298's version of the Lethal Legion.

Nextwave

In the Nextwave series, which in 2006 was declared by 
Editor-in-Chief Joe Quesada to be set in a universe separate from the
main  continuity, Devil Dinosaur is revealed to be the head of
two organizations with ties to terrorism, the Beyond Corporation© and
S.I.L.E.N.T., both of which he created due to his growing hatred of
"monkeys". Devil is depicted as having the power of speech and
proclaims: "Moon-Boy hated me. Moon-Boy had to die. Moon-Boy tasted bad
and gave me considerable rectal distress."


In other media

Television

-   Moon-Boy appears in The Super Hero Squad Show episode "The Devil
    Dinosaur You Say!", voiced by Josh Keaton.
-   Moon-Boy appears in the Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H._ episode
    "Days of Future Smash: The Dino Era", voiced by James Arnold
    Taylor. In the alternate timeline where Leader made dinosaurs
    intelligent and Hulk was fighting Leader in the Mesozoic, the other
    Agents of S.M.A.S.H. members experience a timeline shift where
    dinosaurs are intelligent and civilized. During this time, they had
    to save Moon-Boy from King Sauron's forces led by General Thunder
    Lizard Rossasaurus at the time when King Sauron was going to
    exterminate the primitive humans. With help from El Diablo (an
    intelligent version of Devil Dinosaur) and Spider-Raptor, the Agents
    of S.M.A.S.H. were able to save Moon-Boy and overthrow King Sauron.
    Moon-Boy then befriends El Diablo. After Hulk thwarts Leader's plans
    in the Mesozoic era, the timeline is shifted to another timeline.

Video games

-   Moon-Boy appears in Lego 's Avengers, voiced by James Arnold
    Taylor.

