MOON KNIGHT is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books
published by . Created by Doug Moench and Don Perlin, the
character first appeared in Werewolf by Night #32 (August 1975).


Publication history

The character debuted in Werewolf by Night #32 (August 1975), written
by Doug Moench with art by Don Perlin, as an enemy of the title
character in a two-part story continuing in #33. The character proved
popular with readers and was granted a solo spot in  Spotlight
#28–29 (1976), written by Doug Moench with art by Don Perlin.

He then had appearances in Spectacular Spider-Man #22 and #23
(September/October 1978), both written by Bill Mantlo with art by Mike
Zeck on #22 and Jim Mooney on #23;  Two-in-One #52, written by
Steven Grant with art by Jim Craig; and Defenders #47–50. Moon Knight
then gained a backup strip in Hulk! Magazine #11–15, #17–18, and #20,
as well as  Preview #21 (on which he was the cover feature), all
written by Doug Moench. Art was done by Gene Colan in #11, Keith Pollard
in #12, and Bill Sienkiewicz on the rest. These were reprinted in Moon
Knight Special Edition #1–3.

A new ongoing series was then launched (November 1980), titled Moon
Knight, which also had writing by Doug Moench and art by Bill
Sienkiewicz. With #15 (January 1982),  pulled the series from
newsstand distribution, resulting in it being available only through
direct market purchase at comic book stores. The series continued until
#38 (July 1984), at which point the comic was canceled. A new series,
Moon Knight – Fist Of Khonshu by Alan Zelenetz and Chris Warner,
followed the cancellation to try and establish a new status quo, but it
was canceled after six issues. Afterwards, the character was
incorporated into the pages of West Coast Avengers #21–41 and Annuals
#1–3. After an appearance in Punisher Annual #2 in 1989, the character
was once more given an ongoing series, this time titled Marc Spector:
Moon Knight. At the time, Moon Knight also had a major guest star role
in the pages of The Amazing Spider-Man, as The Amazing Spider-Man
#353–358 served as the conclusion to an ongoing storyline in the pages
of the character's title, as far as the character's war with the Secret
Empire. The series was canceled with #60 (March 1994), with four of the
last six issues drawn by Stephen Platt, who was hired by Image Comics
based on the strength of his work on the series. Two one-shots, Marc
Spector: Moon Knight Special Edition #1 and Moon Knight: Divided We
Fall,_ were published during the run of the title, followed in January
1998 and January 1999 by two further four-issue limited series, which
resurrected the character who had died in the final issue of the 1989
series.

A Moon Knight ongoing series was launched in April 2006, written by
Charlie Huston with art by David Finch. As of #14 of this
series, Mike Benson took over writing duties with Huston acting as
story-outline adviser according to Benson in an interview with 
published as a one-page excerpt in various  books throughout
late 2007 and early 2008. Peter Milligan also wrote a 2008 seasonal
one-shot titled "Moon Knight: Silent Knight" with artist Laurence
Campbell. The 2006 series ended with #30 (July 2009), and only one
Annual in the series was printed in 2008.

That series was followed by a ten-issue series titled Vengeance of the
Moon Knight, beginning in September 2009, written by Gregg Hurwitz and
drawn by Jerome Opena. After Vengeance of the Moon Knight was
canceled, Moon Knight was placed in the team book Secret Avengers
(appearing for the title's first 21 issues), in the Shadowland three
issue storyline and in a 2010 relaunch of Heroes for Hire.

It was announced at the New York Comic Con that 2011 would see the
launch of a new Moon Knight series by Brian Michael Bendis and Alex
Maleev, which Bendis has described as a "complete reinvention of the
character on every conceivable level." This volume launched in May
2011 and ended with #12 in April 2012.

In March 2014,  launched a new ongoing series as part of the All
New  NOW! initiative. Totaling 17 issues, the series was later
released in three trade paperbacks titled From The Dead (#1–6), Dead
Will Rise (#7–12), and In The Night (#13–17). The series introduces a
new aspect of the character in the form of a suited and booted Mr.
Knight.

The second 2014 - 2015 initiative was a new compilation series, the
full-color EPIC COLLECTION. The series includes VOLUME 1: BAD MOON
RISING (2014,_ 504 pages) covering the period 1975 - 1981 and VOLUME
2: SHADOWS OF THE MOON (2015, 512 pages) covering the period 1981 -
1982.

A new MOON KNIGHT series written by Jeff Lemire and artist Greg
Smallwood will debut in 2016. The series is planned to focus on the
psychological issues, the mental scarring and multiple identity issues
suffered by superheroes, associated with having an alter ego, what being
a superhero entails, and the difficulty of maintaining a normal life as
a member of society. Lemire intends to show sides to Spector and
Moon Knight yet to be fully explored.


Fictional character biography

Origin

Born in Chicago, Illinois, MARC SPECTOR is an American rabbi's wayward
son. As an adult, Spector has been a heavyweight boxer, a U.S. Marine,
and a mercenary. He becomes a strong and skilled combatant and befriends
the French pilot Jean-Paul DuChamp, whom he calls "Frenchie". While
working for the African mercenary Raoul Bushman in Egypt, the group
stumbles upon an archaeological dig whose crew includes Dr. Peter
Alraune and his daughter Marlene. The dig had uncovered an ancient
temple where artifacts included a statue of the Egyptian moon god
Khonshu. Intent on looting the dig, Bushman kills Dr. Alraune. In
response to Alraune's murder, Spector challenges Bushman to personal
combat and defeats Bushman, but is left to die in the sub-zero
temperatures of the desert night.

[Moon Knight #1
Art by Bill Sienkiewicz.] Roaming Egyptians who worship the ancient
Egyptian gods find Spector and carry him to their temple. Helpless
before the statue of Khonshu, Spector's heart stops. Khonshu appears to
him in a vision, offering Spector a second chance at life if he becomes
the god's avatar on Earth. Spector awakens, wraps himself with the
silver shroud that covers Khonshu's statue, and again confronts Bushman.
He defeats Bushman and returns to America with Marlene Alraune,
Frenchie, and the statue of Khonshu. Deciding to become a crimefighter,
Spector creates a silver cloaked costume, based on the silver shroud,
and becomes the Moon Knight.

After his return to the United States, Spector invests the money that he
had accumulated as a mercenary and develops a small fortune. To distance
himself from his mercenary past he creates the identity of millionaire
entrepreneur STEVEN GRANT, using this identity to purchase a spacious
estate. To remain in contact with the street and criminal element he
also creates the identity of taxicab driver JAKE LOCKLEY. As Lockley, he
has acquired civilian allies such as Bertrand Crawley and Gena Landers
and her sons.

In the character's first appearance, the criminal organization the
Committee supplies Marc Spector with the name Moon Knight, his costume
and weapons (using silver) to hunt down Jack Russell. In Los Angeles,
Moon Knight captures the Werewolf for the Committee, but then frees him
and halts the Committee's plans, fighting Russell again. He battles
Conquer Lord, teams up with Spider-Man to fight Cyclone, and
fights Lupinas and Randall, the Hatchet-Man.

His origin of being "created by The Committee" is explained as a ruse
set up by Frenchie so Marc can shut the Committee down. He then
encounters the Midnight Man and returns to Chicago to prevent the
poisoning of its water supply by a group called the Werewolves,
encounters Morpheus and teams with Daredevil to fight the
Jester. It is around this time that he first encounters Stained
Glass Scarlet. Later, he battled the Werewolf once again,
battled Bora, and met the X-Men, the Fantastic Four, and Doctor
Strange.

Fist of Khonshu

Spector abandons his Moon Knight, Grant, and Lockley identities after
the effects of Russell's bite (lunar cycle-based strength) fade
away, and functions as an independently wealthy man opening art
galleries around the world, with the help of art historian Spence.
Spector's estranged relationship with Marlene ends when she finally
leaves him for her ex-husband when he becomes Moon Knight again.

The cult of Khonshu telepathically summons Spector to Egypt and supplies
him with a new arsenal of moon-themed projectile weaponry, originally
designed by a time-traveling Hawkeye in ancient Egypt. Khonshu himself
appears to Spector and enters his body, giving him the same lunar
abilities he previously had.

As the agent of Khonshu, he aids the West Coast Avengers, but at the
cost of alienating Frenchie and further distancing Marlene. He time
travels to 2940 BC to rescue the Avengers, where he learns of his
weapons' design by Hawkeye. He officially joins the West Coast
Avengers and enters a relationship with Tigra for the remainder of
his tenure on the team.

While investigating the Phantom Rider with Daimon Hellstrom, Moon Knight
and the Avengers are attacked by soldiers working for Khonshu's rival,
Seth, who is invading Asgard. Khonshu abandons Moon Knight to battle
Seth after explaining it was his wish to join the team, not Spector's.
Moon Knight resigns from the team, and reunites with Marlene and
Frenchie, only to die and be resurrected by Khonshu once more.

Marc Spector: Moon Knight

[Marc Spector: Moon Knight #39
Art by Gary Kwapisz.] After "Fist of Khonshu", a third Moon Knight
volume was published. It was the longest-running series, lasting sixty
issues.

This volume introduces Moon Knight's teenage sidekick Jeff Wilde, also
known as "Midnight", the son of Midnight Man, a villain from the first
volume of the series. At this time, Moon Knight first encounters the
Black Cat. Turned into a cyborg by the Secret Empire, Midnight is
seemingly killed in the "Round Robin" story arc of Amazing Spider-Man,
spanning issues #353-#358. Midnight later reappears in Moon Knight
volume 4, where Moon Knight apparently finishes him off for good.

Teaming up with the Punisher, Moon Knight defeated ULTIMATUM, and
during the "Acts of Vengeance", fought Killer Shrike, Coachwhip, and the
second Ringer. He then encountered Silver Sable and her allies
Sandman and Paladin. As Marc Spector, he was tried for murder in
Bosqueverde, South America. And teamed up with the Punisher again,
as well as Spider-Man against the Secret Empire.

While fighting with his brother Randal Spector over who is destined to
carry the mantle of Moon Knight, Marc discovers Khonshu is not the god
of vengeance but the god of justice.

Starting with issue #38, Moon Knight appears in adamantium armor rather
than his Kevlar costume. In the comic storyline it is explained that
Moon Knight needs the armor to hold his body together after being
infected by the then-possessed Hobgoblin. The disease is revealed to be
the villain known as Demogoblin trying to possess him. With the help of
Doctor Strange and Mister Fantastic, the Demogoblin parasite is removed.
In issue #50, Moon Knight seemingly severs his ties to the Avengers by
burning his membership ID card after being brought in by Thor to answer
charges in regard to his illegal actions against Doctor Doom. By the end
of the series, Moon Knight is killed violently, sacrificing himself to
save his loved ones from a computerized villain called Seth and his
"Zero Hour" program.

Resurrection War

In 1998, writer Doug Moench, artist Tommy Edwards, and inker Robert
Campanella brought the deceased hero back in a four-part miniseries. In
1999, Moench and artist Mark Texeira worked together on another
four-part series called "High Strangeness" which was nominated for the
Comics Buyer's Guide Fan Award for Favorite Limited Series. The title of
the story was mistakenly given as "High Strangers" on the covers of the
limited series. The correct title of the story, "High Strangeness",
appeared on the title page of each issue.

Minor appearances

In 1998 Spector uses his Ka to help a critically injured Black Panther
through the Kingdom of the Dead. In 2001 and 2002 Moon Knight joins
the " Knights" non-team. After making a brief appearance in the
"Avengers Disassembled" story-arc, he makes a minor return in the 2005
 Team-Up miniseries, fighting alongside Spider-Man, Daredevil,
and the Punisher. He later appears in issue #2 of the Great Lakes
Avengers mini-series where Doorman offered to recruit him in the GLA,
but he immediately rejects the offer.

Moon Knight (2006)

The first arc of the 2006 re-launch by writer Charlie Huston and
penciller David Finch, titled "The Bottom", explores Marc Spector's
return to crime-fighting following his self-imposed exile. His
retirement comes after a brutal battle with Bushman. Although his body
is broken after a tremendous fall, Moon Knight finally defeats Bushman
by carving off his face with a crescent moon dart. The series highlights
Spector's supposed spiritual connection to the moon god as well as his
own psychologically damaged state of mind. After returning to his role
as Moon Knight, Spector continually receives guidance by what he
believes to be Khonshu in the form of a faceless Bushman. This storyline
also updates Marc Spector's timeline, suggesting he fought in the Gulf
War and that his time as a mercenary was during the 1990s. It is also
revealed that Frenchie is in love with Marc Spector; he indicates this
is why he stuck around for so long.

In the second issue, Huston introduces the Profile, an amoral character
analyst whom the Committee brings in to help them entrap Moon Knight. He
escapes after the plan collapses, and later becomes a reluctant source
of information for Spector himself.

The next arc, "Midnight Sun", takes place during the Civil War and
follows Moon Knight as he investigates a string of murders perpetrated
by Midnight, his former sidekick. This arc also depicts Moon Knight's
first contact with other  heroes since his return. Spider-Man
attempts to contact Moon Knight but is rebuked. Captain America pays
him a visit to deliver a warning and they quarrel. The Punisher and
Moon Knight have a lengthy conversation about the nature of their
vigilantism and their shared past. Moon Knight is forced into a
final confrontation with his former sidekick Jeff Wilde (a.k.a.
Midnight), seemingly killing him for good.

Iron Man also investigates Moon Knight's activities by placing him under
close surveillance. Finding his mental condition unstable, Iron Man
decides that arresting Moon Knight under the Registration Act might make
his mental instability worse. However, Moon Knight is identified as one
of the 142 registered superheroes appearing on the cover of Avengers:
The Initiative #1.

Moon Knight begrudgingly applies for registration after much prodding
from Khonshu, not wanting the law to keep him from his work. The law
requires him to submit to a psychiatric exam. The psychiatrist
controlling the exam, along with the government and Tony Stark, has no
intention of granting Marc Spector approval for registration. After
speaking with Spector's repressed alter egos Jake Lockley and Steven
Grant, the psychiatrist begins the process of officially turning him
down, suggesting possible future imprisonment. Spector breaks the
doctor's will by speaking in the voice of Khonshu and pointing out the
doctor's own antisocial tendencies, told to him by the Profile. The
psychiatrist not only approves his application, but bows to worship him
as well. However, later on, Marc meets the Profile with their dialogue
suggesting that the personalities above were just an act to be approved
for registration.

In the subsequent arc, "God and Country", writer Mike Benson and artist
Mark Texeira take over the series, with Charlie Huston still
co-plotting. This arc centers itself on Moon Knight's ability (or lack
thereof) as a "registered hero" and Marc Spector's ability (or lack
thereof) to hold on to the people around him. This arc sees the return
of the classic Moon Knight villain Black Spectre. In this story, Carson
Knowles, recently released from prison, falls back into his ways as the
Black Spectre and yet again attempts to destroy Moon Knight and hurt the
city. In issue #19, the finale of "God and Country", Moon Knight pushes
Knowles off a building apparently to his death. This arc also features a
large role for Tony Stark, as the head of the Initiative, and lead
dissenter of Moon Knight's vigilantism.

In issue #21, a new story arc began, titled "The Death of Marc Spector".
This arc is written by Mike Benson, and it involves the Thunderbolts,
led by Norman Osborn, who are now on the hunt for Moon Knight. Tony
Stark and his second-in-command Maria Hill argue with former Avengers
government liaison Raymond Sikorsky, now a representative of the CSA,
who desperately wants for Moon Knight to be apprehended with extreme
prejudice. Marc Spector himself busts up a drug deal while wearing an
entirely black costume, while going through an internal monologue about
how crime-fighting is much easier without the burden of his reputation
and 'costume recognition'.

Several weeks later, after barely surviving an altercation with the
Thunderbolts, Spector pleads for Khonshu's forgiveness for turning his
back on him and for the god's renewed assistance. Khonshu appears and
informs Spector he doesn't need him anymore, as he now has other
worshippers. Spector returns to his Moon Knight costume to aid Frenchie
DuChamp in gaining revenge on the Whyos gang for attacking his
restaurant and injuring Frenchie's lover Rob, only to find the Whyos'
attack was designed to draw Spector into another conflict with the
Thunderbolts when he is ambushed by Venom. After a brief fight Moon
Knight is captured, but escapes when S.H.I.E.L.D. shows up. Frenchie
agrees to help Spector, and Ray joins the reformed team as well.
Bullseye is released to kill Moon Knight, as Spector prepares to go out
with a bang.

Moon Knight is next seen battling Bullseye in the streets of NYC. He
eventually leads Bullseye to a bunker/warehouse where he has planted
several explosives. Bullseye narrowly escapes as Moon Knight ignites the
explosives. Later that day two press conferences are held: one by Norman
Osborn to announce the Thunderbolts' success and Moon Knight's death and
the other held by Tony Stark who denounces the methods used by the
Thunderbolts. At the end of the issue it is revealed that Moon Knight
has faked his death, escapes from the warehouse through a secret passage
in the floor, and is hiding in Mexico. It is also revealed that the Marc
Spector persona has "died" and that Jake Lockley is now in control.

Now living as Lockley, the Moon Knight escaped to Mexico. Laying low to
avoid attracting the attentions of the Registration Act any further,
Lockley gets roped into a mission involving drug cartels and a murderous
Aztec. During this stint in Mexico, Moon Knight learns he was being
shadowed by The Punisher from the moment he crossed the border. Frank
Castle's reasoning was that he knew Moon Knight would find himself
somehow involved with the very cartel Frank had been pursuing.

Eventually, the super-hero Civil War would end. When the news reveals
that Norman Osborn has become director of H.A.M.M.E.R. and had
S.H.I.E.L.D. replaced, however, Lockely would take issue. Knowing that
Osborn had been behind the group of Thunderbolts sent to kill him, and
that he was a deranged psychotic not fit to run the U.S.A.'s national
security agencies, Moon Knight decided it was time for a come-back.

Vengeance of the Moon Knight

Moon Knight returns to New York after faking his death with Jake Lockley
as his dominant personality, but still struggles against his violent
nature and is hounded by Khonshu in the form of a small imaginary
tormentor resembling a man in the Moon Knight costume with a bird skull
who goads him to kill. While trying to walk the path of a hero he makes
a bold return taking on many criminals but killing none of them; now the
people of New York begin to see him as a hero and not a murderous
vigilante much to Norman Osborn's disdain. Jake's personality has been
one of struggle against the inner demon trying to get him to kill while
juggling sobriety.

Later, the Sentry takes Moon Knight across the city while he saves
people and stops crimes telling Lockley that eventually he will be
tested and that he will fail, to which Moon Knight replies "So will
you". They stare each other down for a moment before Moon Knight
eventually leaves.

After sending the Sentry to confront Moon Knight, Norman Osborn
summons The Hood and The Profile to take down Moon Knight. The hood uses
his powers to bring Moon Knight's longtime foe Bushman back to life.
Bushman resumes to gather an army by enlisting Scarecrow to break into
Ravencroft Asylum, where they lobotomize the prisoners to make them more
compliant.

Jake Lockley tries to make amends to Marlene and Frenchie for his
previous behavior and mental breakdown. Under the Jake Lockley persona,
he is regarded as more sane; Marlene mentions that his "eyes are clear".
Bushman's army and the Scarecrow soon attacks New York and Moon Knight
defeats them. Bushman himself manages to escape, only to later be
confronted and subdued by Moon Knight. A growing Khonshu screams for
vengeance, yet Moon Knight manages to defy him and spare Bushman's life.
At the conclusion, Bushman winds up in jail and Jake Lockley begins to
start a new life with Marlene.

Secret Avengers

Moon Knight became a featured member of Secret Avengers, beginning in
May 2010. The series was originally written by Ed Brubaker with art by
Mike Deodato and features Steve Rogers, War Machine, Valkyrie, Beast,
Nova, as well as the redemption thirsty Moon Knight. He remained
with the Secret Avengers until the line-up was reshuffled by
Hawkeye.

Shadowland

During the Shadowland storyline, Moon Knight ends up fighting Profile
who was sent by Daredevil. During Moon Knight's fight with Profile,
it is revealed that the second Avatar of Khonshu who is working with
Profile is none other than Moon Knight's brother Randall Spector in the
alias of Shadow Knight. While Moon Knight is able to best him, it
was at the cost of gaining his Marc Spector personality back.

Moon Knight Goes to L.A. (2011-2012)

In this series, Spector is shown in Los Angeles as the creator of a TV
show based on his origin and superheroics dubbed "Legends of the
Khonshu". Later on as Moon Knight, he intercepts a delivery of an Ultron
robot body. Spector has also developed three new multiple personalities
based on Spider-Man, Wolverine, and the original Captain America who
help guide him. Moon Knight gets the head of the Ultron, and attacks
a strip club as Spider-Man to get to the mysterious L.A. Kingpin. Moon
Knight beats the club leader Snapdragon, but gets shot by a guard before
getting answers. It was the superhero Echo who saved him, but she lost
her cover in the process. Moon Knight and Echo then decide to team
up against the Kingpin. Meanwhile, it is also revealed that Spector
hired ex-SHIELD agent Buck Lime to design his weapons while posing as a
soldier of fortune consultant for his TV show. After a fight with
the Night Shift (sent by Snapdragon), Moon Knight and Echo formally team
up against the Kingpin. Buck, however, informs the Avengers of Ultron's
head, and they visit Spector who convinces them (and later Buck) that he
knows what he is doing. Together with Buck and Echo, Moon Knight
beats the Kingpin who turns out to be Count Nefaria, and captures
Snapdragon (although Nefaria got away). But Moon Knight and Echo
keep targeting and attacking Nefaria's bases of operations. Soon,
however, Nefaria strikes back, and Echo is killed. This sends Moon
Knight's Wolverine personality into berserker mode and it seemingly
kills the Captain America and Spider-Man personalities. Moon Knight
proceeds to violently attack Nefaria who gets beaten up badly. Nefaria,
however, survives and sends his daughter, Madame Masque to retrieve the
Ultron head, who succeeds. But Moon Knight and Buck retaliate and
attack her. Madame Masque is about to beat Moon Knight, but just then he
develops an Echo personality, who tells him to not let her die in vain.
Moon Knight fights back, and defeats Madame Masque. Meanwhile, the
police have Snapdragon testify against Nefaria, and get a warrant for
his arrest. Nefaria angrily attacks the police station, and is about to
kill Snapdragon, but Moon Knight intervenes again. In the ensuing
battle, Moon Knight is beaten, and Nefaria orders him to return the
Ultron head, and work for him. Moon Knight tells Nefaria that the head
is outside, but the tables were turned as Moon Knight had called the
Avengers, and Nefaria was defeated. The next day, Tony Stark commends
Marc Spector for a job well done, and tells that Ultron is waiting and
planning a robot holocaust. After Stark leaves, it seems that Spector
developed an Iron Man personality as well. In the epilogue to the
series, Spector leaves Hollywood.

Avengers vs. X-Men

During the events of Avengers vs. X-Men, Moon Knight is partnered with
Falcon and She-Hulk as part of a small team of Avengers assigned to
watch over the Jean Grey School for Higher Learning. During the
ensuing skirmish initiated by Frenzy, Moon Knight is rendered comatose
by Rogue. He is last seen at Stark Tower as one of the many former
Avengers celebrating the return of Janet Van Dyne.

All New  NOW!

A new Moon Knight series was launched in 2014, written by Warren Ellis
and drawn by Declan Shalvey with colors by Jordie Bellaire. Spector,
having returned to New York, now utilizes two costumed personas. The
first is Moon Knight, using a plethora of high-tech equipment such as a
voice-controlled glider/drone, alongside magical trinkets such as an
enchanted skull helmet and other shamanic dressings. As Moon Knight,
Spector deals with familiar territory, often delving into the
supernatural. The second persona is Mr. Knight, dressed in an all-white
business suit, gloves and mask, who consults with the New York Police
Department and deals with common thugs and crimes such as
kidnapping.

It was announced in December 2014 that Cullen Bunn would take over as
writer of the series with issue #13, with Ron Ackins on art duties.


Character analysis

Charlie Huston, writer of the 2006 re-launch of Moon Knight, attempted
to answer the criticism that Moon Knight is an ersatz Batman in an
interview with Comixfan. The interviewer noted that the comparison
is not baseless, as both Moon Knight and the Dark Knight are wealthy,
"normal" humans that use gadgetry to fight crime.

Huston accepted that the two characters had their similarities, but went
on to contrast the two by noting in particular differences in origin,
motives, and personality. "Bruce Wayne", he said, "fights crime to
avenge the murders of his parents", whereas Moon Knight "beats up
whoever has it coming because he believes he is the avatar of the
Egyptian god of vengeance and it helps him to feel better about all the
people he killed when he was a mercenary." Thus, while Batman is
motivated by vengeance for wrong done to his parents, Marc Spector is
motivated by vengeance as a concept. Huston further notes that Bruce
Wayne, Batman's alter ego, takes on other personalities merely to aid in
his fight. However, Moon Knight has three alter egos which aid him as
much in dealing with personal demons as fighting law-breakers, and which
have taken a further psychological toll of causing dissociative identity
disorder. In the question of his sanity, Spider-Man remarked "Mooney.
Rhymes with loony." 


Powers and abilities

Over the course of his life as a boxer, U.S. Marine, mercenary, and
costumed superhero, Marc Spector has become an expert at hand-to-hand
combat techniques and various martial arts. He is an Olympic-level
athlete and a skilled acrobat and gymnast, and excels as a combat
strategist. He employs a variety of weapons over the course of his
career, including throwing darts, nunchaku, and a truncheon. He is
skilled with most weapons, and an expert with throwing weapons. Spector
is a superb driver and can pilot a helicopter.

Taskmaster, who has the ability to copy and replicate anyone's fighting
style, has stated that he prefers not to copy Moon Knight's style, as
Moon Knight would rather take a punch than block it.

[Promotional art of Moon Knight descending from the Mooncopter. Art by
David Finch.] Spector gained his superhuman powers as a result of a
visitation by the Egyptian moon god Khonshu. Moon Knight's strength,
endurance, and reflexes are enhanced depending upon the phases of the
moon. The fuller the moon, the more strength Moon Knight derives
from it, though even during a new moon, he can lift several hundred
pounds. He has some degree of superhuman strength during the peak of a
lunar cycle, but he only gets superhuman strength from the lunar cycle.
It's not known how much of this strength is mystical and how much is
simply the result of self-hypnosis due to his psychological instability.
Due to his multiple personalities, he is also resistant to some psychic
attacks and sometimes receives prophetic visions.

At one point, Moon Knight is given special weapons by the cult of
Khonshu made by Hawkeye, including bolas, golden throwing crescent-darts
shaped like scarabs, an ivory boomerang, throwing irons, and a golden
stick in the shape of an ankh that glowed in the presence of danger that
can be used as a throwing weapon or bludgeon. These items are replaced
with duplicate weapons crafted by Hawkeye. He later retires these items
to his personal museum after abandoning the "Egyptian" motif in favor of
updated versions of his original styled-gear, including a
truncheon/staff/nunchucks combo, and a compound bow. He has also used an
axe-shaped lasso-grapple.

During the third series, Moon Knight's silver-white costume includes
adamantium, and he acquires an array of high-tech weaponry including an
adamantium staff, a truncheon capable of firing a cable line, and
gauntlets that fire crescent darts. He has also been depicted using
spiked knuckles, worn on the left hand.

Later on, Moon Knight's costume uses carbonadium as armor, and has
joint-locking functions, allowing him to support weights far greater
than what he can normally lift. Moon Knight makes use of this at one
point to leave his costume supporting a building while defending himself
in his underwear. Additionally, Moon Knight can 'suit up' by use of a
remote control device which assembles the individual pieces of his armor
onto his body, similar in fashion to Iron Man.

For transportation, Moon Knight employs a variety of sophisticated
aircraft. These include the Mooncopter and Angelwing, featuring VTOL
(vertical take-off and landing), a rope ladder, and 20 mm cannons.
Later, Moon Knight utilizes a remote controlled white limousine when
acting as "Mr. Knight", and a similarly remote controlled
crescent-shaped drone/glider when acting as Moon Knight.


Rogues gallery

While Moon Knight fights villains such as Bullseye and Taskmaster which
are enemies of other heroes as well, he has also accumulated his own
rogues gallery. Villains include:

-   Black Spectre
-   Bluebeard
-   Bora
-   Raoul Bushman
-   Committee
-   Crossfire
-   Killer Shrike
-   Midnight Man
-   Morpheus
-   The Profile
-   Shadow Knight
-   Stained Glass Scarlet
-   The Werewolf


Reception

Moon Knight was ranked by Wizard magazine as the 149th greatest comic
book character of all time. IGN also listed Moon Knight as the 89th
greatest comic book character stating that the Moon Knight is more or
less the concept of what would happen if the Batman were to suffer a
multiple personality disorder, and as #49 on their list of the "Top
50 Avengers".


Other versions

2099

The one-shot 2099: Manifest Destiny (March 1998) introduced a female
 2099 version of Moon Knight, fighting crime in the lunar city of
Attilan. Manifest Destiny was the last comic published in 's
2099 line and the character has not reappeared since. Her identity,
abilities, and motivations were never revealed.

House of M

Moon Knight appears in House of M as part of Luke Cage's Sapien
Resistance against Earth's rulers, the House of Magnus (Magneto and his
children, Quicksilver, Polaris, and the Scarlet Witch), although he is
not wearing his costume in this timeline. He also appears in House
of M: Avengers wearing his costume. A little more of his back story is
uncovered as well, still following Khonshu and still suffering from
multiple personalities.

Infinity War

In the Infinity War crossover, the alien double of Moon Knight had
ambitions. Using a source of cosmic power (the child Franklin Richards),
he became the multi-dimensional Moon Shade. He then murdered the
majority of the Multiverse's alternate versions of Moon Knight.

 Zombies

In  Zombies, Moon Knight is one of the superheroes infected by
the zombie plague. Previously he had been part of the resistance
organized by Nick Fury, but presumably turned into one of the zombies in
a later battle. He is attacked by 'Deadites', reanimated versions of
many of the dead humans, which seemingly tear Moon Knight apart. (he
presumably escapes, as he is seen in the first issue of the regular
 Zombies series, which is set after Army of Darkness) He is
later killed by Deadpool, who appears on the  Zombies Earth and
cuts his head off.

S.H.I.E.L.D.

In April 2010 S.H.I.E.L.D. #1 features an Egyptian version of Moon
Knight. This version is similar in appearance to the Khonshu statue that
Marc Spector worshiped in the past. He can be seen holding a staff that
has a crescent moon at the top.

Ultimate 

The Ultimate  incarnation of Moon Knight is a former U.S Marine
that is the product of a Super Soldier experiment gone wrong. Prior to
becoming Moon Knight, he worked for the Roxxon Corporation as Paladin.
It is also noted that he has a form of dissociative identity disorder.
Within the comic, the "personalities" of Steven Grant, Marc Spector,
Moon Knight, an unnamed red-headed little girl, and Ronin interact
through internal monologue. He lives with his girlfriend Marlene. She
displays knowledge of his Moon Knight identity.

Ultimate Moon Knight first appears in Ultimate Spider-Man #79 during
the Warriors story-arc. He is an active participant of a gang war
waged by the Kingpin and newcomer Hammerhead.

During the battle, he is impaled by the assassin Elektra. Although
gravely wounded, Moon Knight subdues Elektra with a moon-blade to her
head before slipping into a coma. Upon waking up, Moon Knight escapes
from custody and engages in a fight with the Punisher, Spider-Man, and
Daredevil. After the battle, Daredevil invites Moon Knight to join an
organization of superheroes with the goal of bringing down the Kingpin.

As part of this group, Spector adopts the identity of Ronin to
infiltrate the Kingpin's ranks. The idea of turning 'Ronin' into the
main persona is made by the Steven Grant and Marc Spector personalities,
who oppose the Moon Knight persona and the concerns of the small girl
persona. In doing so, they create a far more ruthless personality who
the Kingpin would find suitable. Moon Knight himself is angered by this
decision, but is seemingly destroyed by the Ronin personality.

The Kingpin discovers that Ronin is working for Daredevil and orders his
execution. He survives, however, and after regaining consciousness goes
to the police claiming that the Kingpin ordered his execution. This
provides a charge for the police to arrest the Kingpin, but he has to
reveal his secret identity for a charge to be placed. It also seems that
the Moon Knight persona is still alive after the Ronin persona decides
to wake him up.

Universe X

In Universe X, Moon Knight is locked in a never ending battle with the
Sons of Set, over the statue of Khonshu. It's actually stated that Marc
Spector has been dead from the beginning, and just as the moon reflects
light, Spector has been "reflecting" the form of a living man, making
him effectively immortal. Moreover, it is also suggested that the
original inspiration for the moon god Khonshu was the Watcher Uatu who
watches the Earth from his base on the moon.


In other media

Television

-   Moon Knight was planned to appear in an episode of Blade: The
    Series, but the show was cancelled.  Studios and No Equal
    Entertainment announced a live action Moon Knight TV series in
    2006. Writer Jon Cooksey confirmed in 2008 that he was
    developing the Moon Knight television series.

Video games

-   Moon Knight is one of the default playable characters on the
    next-gen consoles (Wii, Xbox 360, and PlayStation 3) versions of
    : Ultimate Alliance, voiced by Phil LaMarr. He can wear his
    Classic, Ultimate, and Khonshu costumes. A mod available for the PC,
    PS2, PSP, and Xbox version of the game unlocks him as a playable
    character, adding a fourth costume which is labeled as 'Modern'
    which closely resembles his action figure costume with the arm and
    leg gauntlets, previously black body suit 'Retro'.
-   Moon Knight appears in Spider-Man: Web of Shadows, voiced by Robin
    Atkin Downes. Spider-Man first encounters him in his Mooncopter at
    the top of Spector Tower when Black Cat makes her escape and
    Spider-Man defeats Kingpin's forces. He and Vulture later argues
    about the idea of Spider-Man busting Tinkerer out of Ryker's Island
    when it came to the symbiotes' invasion, yet still gives Spider-Man
    a ride to the facility if he chooses the Red Suit path. He later
    helps S.H.I.E.L.D. in fighting the symbiotic invasion. After the
    defeat of Symbiote-Vulture, Moon Knight flies Spider-Man to
    the S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier that Venom and his symbiotes are
    attacking if the player has a Red Suit path. Artwork shown on the
    end credits of the PS3, Xbox 360 and Wii versions depict a
    Symbiote-Moon Knight, but this concept was not used in the
    actual game. In the Amazing Allies Edition released for the
    PlayStation 2 and PSP, he is an assist character who will use his
    lunar attacks on enemies.
-   Moon Knight appears in Hawkeye's ending for Ultimate  vs.
    Capcom 3 as a member of his West Coast Avengers.
-   Moon Knight has a table in the  Pinball: Virtue & Vengeance
    table pack for Pinball FX 2, and Zen Pinball 2. Developed by Zen
    Studios, the player controls the Moon Knight character into the
    world of crime fighting on the streets of New York City. The table
    pits the player against four of Moon Knight’s traditional enemies:
    Morpheus, Midnight, Bushman and Black Spectre. It also features
    characters such as Moon Knights love interest Marlene Alraune and
    allies Frenchie and Bertrand Crawley. It culminates in a battle with
    the god of evil and death Khonshu.

-   Moon Knight is a playable character in  Super Hero Squad
    Online.
-   Moon Knight appears in  Heroes.
-   Moon Knight is an unlockable character in : Avengers
    Alliance.
-   Moon Knight is a playable character in online MMORPG  Contest
    of Champions.
-   Moon Knight appears in Lego  Super Heroes, voiced by
    Troy Baker.
-   Moon Knight is a Minecraft skin appearing in the  Avengers
    Skin Pack for Xbox 360 edition.
-   Moon Knight is a playable in Lego 's Avengers, voiced by
    Keith Silverstein.

Collectibles

Action figures

Moon Knight has had five figure renditions over the years (six including
a variant in the most recent figure). The first figure was an exclusive
mail-away figure in the " Gold" Line. It was a simple figure based
on a ToyBiz base sculpt, with a thin latex-like cape and belt
(reminiscent of the costume style employed by artist Stephen Platt). The
figure was painted white, with a black head. Moon Knight's second figure
was from the 10"  Universe Line. This figure was a repaint of a
base sculpt (used for Spider-Man, Daredevil, and many others) and
included a cloth cape. The figure was painted white, had yellow arm
bands, and a black head. More recently Moon Knight has been included in
the  Select line from Diamond Select Toys. This version of the
figure comes with a rubber cape and rubber crescent dart accessories, as
well as a Khonshu Statue. The figure is painted a Greyish color, with a
black head, white arm bands and boots. Moon Knight has also appeared in
a recent series of the  Legends line. This figure is painted
black, with white gloves, boots, and cape. It comes with both a nunchaku
and staff accessory, and its cape is made of rubber as well. It also has
a printed cardboard background. This figure also had a rare variant
version. The variant was identical in that the costume was shiny silver
instead of black. Most recently, Moon Knight has been released in the 3"
 Universe line. In this line, Moon Knight is white with a black
face, and comes with a rubber cape, a crescent shaped throwing dart and
staff.

In addition to these more traditional action figures, Moon Knight has
been included in the Super Hero Squad toy line from Hasbro as part of a
two-pack with Spider-Man. A Moon Knight figure was also released in
series 29 of the  Minimates figures, as part of a two-pack with
Armored Daredevil.

Statues

Numerous commercially released statues have been created of the
character Moon Knight. The first was a mini bust created by Bowen
Designs in the late 1990s. It features a him in his white costume from
the waist up. The second rendition was another mini bust from Diamond
Select in 2006. It depicted only his torso and head, and featured a
darker costume and white cape. In 2006 Bowen Designs released a full
body statue of Moon Knight sculpted and designed by the Kucharek
Brothers. This statue came in two versions. The first was painted a dark
silver, and the second, which was far more rare, was painted white. In
2013 Gentle Giant released yet another mini bust of Moon Knight.
This statue featured a waist up depiction of moon knight with his arms
prominently displayed.


Bibliography

Eponymous series

In addition to appearing in other  titles, Moon Knight has
headlined the following series and one-shots:

-   Moon Knight Vol. 1, #1–38 (1980–1984)
-   Moon Knight Special Edition #1–3 (1983–1984, reprints Hulk
    Magazine and  Preview stories)
-   Moon Knight Vol. 2, #1–6 (1985)
-   Marc Spector: Moon Knight #1–60 (1989–1994)
    -   Moon Knight Special one-shot (1992, cover reads Marc Spector:
        Moon Knight Special, but indicia indicates simply Moon Knight
        Special)
-   Moon Knight: Divided We Fall one-shot (1992)
-   Moon Knight: Resurrection War #1–4 (1998)
-   Moon Knight: High Strangers #1–4 (1999)
-   Moon Knight Vol. 3, #1–30 (2006–2009)
    -   Moon Knight Annual #1 (2007)
-   Moon Knight: Silent Knight one-shot (2009)
-   Moon Knight Saga one-shot (2009)
-   Vengeance of the Moon Knight #1–10 (2009–2010)
-   Shadowland: Moon Knight #1–3 (2010)
-   Moon Knight Vol. 4, #1–12 (2011–2012)
-   Moon Knight Vol. 5, #1-17 (2014-2015)

Collected editions

  Title                                                        Material collected                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Publication date   ISBN
  ------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------
  Essential Moon Knight Vol. 1                               Werewolf By Night #32–33;  Spotlight #28–29; Spectacular Spider-Man #22–23;  Two-In-One #52; Hulk Magazine #11–15, 17–18, 20;  Preview #21; Moon Knight Vol. 1 #1–10                                                  February 2006      
  Essential Moon Knight Vol. 2                               Moon Knight Vol. 1 #11–30                                                                                                                                                                                                                           October 2007       
  Essential Moon Knight Vol. 3                               Moon Knight Vol. 1 #31–38; Moon Knight Vol. 2 #1–6;  Fanfare #30, #38–39; Solo Avengers #3;  Super-Heroes #1                                                                                                                    November 2009      
  Moon Knight: Countdown to Dark                             Hulk Magazine #11–15, 17-18, 20 and  Preview #21                                                                                                                                                                                            September 2010     
  Moon Knight Epic Collection: Bad Moon Rising               Werewolf By Night #32-33;  Spotlight #28-29; Defenders #47-50; Peter Parker, the Spectacular Spider-Man #22-23;  Two-in-One #52; Moon Knight #1-4; Material from Hulk Magazine #11-15, #17-18, #20;  Preview #21,   October 2014       
  Moon Knight Vol. 1: The Bottom                             Moon Knight Vol. 3 #1–6                                                                                                                                                                                                                             January 2007       
  ''Moon Knight Vol. 2: Midnight Sun                           Moon Knight Vol. 3 #7–13, Moon Knight Annual #1                                                                                                                                                                                                   January 2008       
  Moon Knight Vol. 3: God & Country                          Moon Knight Vol. 3 #14–20                                                                                                                                                                                                                           November 2008      
  Moon Knight Vol. 4: The Death of Marc Spector              Moon Knight Vol. 3 #21–25, Moon Knight: Silent Knight #1,                                                                                                                                                                                         March 2009,        
  Moon Knight Vol. 5: Down South                             Moon Knight Vol. 3 #26–30                                                                                                                                                                                                                           October 2009       
  Vengeance of the Moon Knight Vol 1: Shock and Awe          Vengeance of the Moon Knight #1–6                                                                                                                                                                                                                   July 2010          
  Vengeance of the Moon Knight Vol 2: Killed, Not Dead       Vengeance of the Moon Knight #7–10                                                                                                                                                                                                                  December 2010      
  Shadowland: Moon Knight                                    Shadowland: Moon Knight #1–3 and Thunderbolts #148–149,                                                                                                                                                                                           March 2011         
  Moon Knight by Brian Michael Bendis & Alex Maleev Vol. 1   Moon Knight Vol. 4 #1–7                                                                                                                                                                                                                             December 2011      
  Moon Knight by Brian Michael Bendis & Alex Maleev Vol. 2   Moon Knight Vol. 4 #8–12                                                                                                                                                                                                                            June 2012          
  Moon Knight Vol. 1: From the Dead                          Moon Knight Vol. 5 #1–6                                                                                                                                                                                                                             October 2014       
  Moon Knight Vol. 2: Blackout                               Moon Knight Vol. 5 #7-12                                                                                                                                                                                                                            April 2015         
  Moon Knight Vol. 3: In The Night                           Moon Knight Vol. 5 #13-17                                                                                                                                                                                                                           October 2015       

