MOONDRAGON (HEATHER DOUGLAS) is a fictional character appearing in
American comic books published by . A powerful telepath,
master martial artist, minor telekinetic, and highly skilled geneticist,
Moondragon's most notable characteristics are her shaved head,
superiority complex, and achieving excellence in virtually every area of
human accomplishment.

Unlike most  characters, who have gained their paranormal
abilities through birth or accident, Moondragon has strictly achieved
her extraordinary talents through extreme degrees of personal regimen.
She is openly bisexual, and has been romantically attracted to
Daredevil, Thor, Cloud, Quasar, Marlo Chandler, and Phyla-Vell.


Publication history

Moondragon first appeared in Iron Man (vol. 1) #54 (January 1973). The
issue was scripted by Bill Everett (creator of the Sub-Mariner) and Mike
Friedrich and drawn by Everett and George Tuska.

She is somewhat infamous for mentally enslaving Thor to be her lover,
along with unwillingly committing patricide, in a storyline scripted by
Jim Shooter.


Fictional character biography

Origin

Heather Douglas was born in Los Angeles, California, daughter of Arthur
and Yvette Steckley Douglas. When Heather was still a girl, her father
was driving her and her mother through the desert when they accidentally
happened to see the spaceship of Thanos land; the space villain did not
want any witnesses, so he destroyed their car. Heather was thrown clear
and survived, but her parents were killed. (She would later discover
that her father's soul was bound into a new body, becoming Drax the
Destroyer.) She was found by Thanos' father, Mentor, who took her to his
home world, Titan, to be raised by the monks of Shao-Lom.

From the monks, Heather develops her body to its full potential,
becoming a formidable martial artist. They teach Heather various
scientific disciplines such as chemistry and genetic engineering; but
most significantly, they help Heather tap into her latent psionic
powers, present within all humans. Heather is able to develop her mental
powers far beyond even those of her teachers, so much so that she
eventually mentally contacts a powerful entity called the Dragon of the
Moon. The Dragon immediately tries to corrupt and take her over, but she
fights back, driving the Dragon away. This fills her with pride and an
overwhelming sense of superiority. To commemorate her victory, she takes
the name Moondragon. Unknown to Heather, the Dragon subtly continues to
influence her on a subconscious level.

Heather's choice of the name Moondragon causes an uproar amongst the
monks of Shao-Lom, so much so that Mentor has to confront her on the
matter. After the confrontation, Moondragon is approached by Runner, one
of the Elders of the Universe. Runner takes Moondragon on a tour of the
universe, showing her its fantastic sights and wonders. Runner
eventually takes Moondragon to the surface of a sun. He informs her that
the sun would go nova in several years. Moondragon points out to Runner
that the sun harbored an inhabited planet and that they should warn the
inhabitants. Runner regretfully responds that, when he chose the path of
freedom, he lost the option to interfere with others' destinies.
Moondragon argues, "What good is freedom?" when it only leads to death.
When Runner fails to answer her satisfactorily, she requests to be
brought back home.

Sometime later, Thanos attacks Titan, destroying the monastery and the
Shao-Lom monks. Moondragon escapes in her spaceship and flees to
Earth.

Alliances against Thanos and Korvac

She first returns to Earth under the guise of "Madame MacEvil" for
developing means to combat Thanos. This leads to the creation of
villains like Angar the Screamer, Ramrod, and the Dark Messiah. In
her first appearance, she forces Iron Man to battle Namor in order to
study them. She then reveals her true identity and helps the Avengers
in their first confrontation with Thanos. She meets the heroine Hellcat
and takes her to Titan to train her.

She battles Daredevil but is nearly killed by her ex-ally Kerwin J.
Broderick. She restores Daredevil's sight briefly with her alien
pressure point skills and then first meets Captain Mar-Vell. She aids
them against Angar, the Dark Messiah, and Terrex. She falls in love
with Daredevil but then returns to outer space. She aids Captain
Mar-Vell, Drax, and the Avengers against Thanos.

Moondragon is one of the three candidates to be the "Celestial Madonna",
who was prophesied to give birth to a universal savior, but she loses to
Mantis. She then becomes an adventurer and joins the Avengers.
Although her time with the team is short, she again aids the
Avengers against Thanos.

Moondragon is present when the Avengers confront Korvac; her powers
allow her to see into his mind while they fight, and she decides that
his goal of saving the universe by ruling it is noble. She stays out of
the battle until Korvac, dejected, commits suicide.

Paths of corruption and redemption

Moondragon leaves Earth with Drax and finds a planet immersed in war, so
she decides to take mental control of all its inhabitants to force them
to live in peace, setting herself up as their "peace goddess". Drax
summons the Avengers to intervene and in the resultant confrontation,
Moondragon is forced to kill her father with her mental powers.
Afterwards, Thor takes her before a real god—his father, Odin, to be
judged. Odin perceives within Moondragon a stalwart but tainted
spirit. He condemns her to wear a magical headband that reduces her
mental powers until she has overcome her arrogance and learned humility.
He also assigns Valkyrie to be her guardian.

When Valkyrie rejoins the Defenders, Moondragon is forced to come
along. At first, she sends out low level telepathic signals, luring
threats to the vicinity of the Defenders' headquarters, hoping that one
of these threats would remove her headband or force the Defenders to
remove the headband so she may use her powers to aid them unhindered.
One of those who respond to her telepathic suggestions turns out to be a
man infected with mutated spores, who the Defenders manage to defeat.

Despite the fact that Moondragon resents being with the Defenders, she
wants to be accepted by them as a good person. In an encounter with
Asgardian trolls, Moondragon resists the temptation of letting the
trolls and the Dragon of the Moon remove her headband, thus proving
herself to Odin, who promptly lets the headband fall off.

This personal victory is short-lived, for soon afterwards the Defenders
have to fight the spawns of the mutated spores they fought months
before. The spawns soon coalesce into a single gargantuan monster, which
Moondragon vanquishes with the help of the Gargoyle. Unknown to
Moondragon, in doing so, she is infected with the mutated spores. She
does not find out about the infection until weeks later, when the spores
have supplanted a good portion of her own internal organs. The
Dragon of the Moon appears again and tells her it can save her life, but
only if she agrees to be its host. Moondragon initially turns down its
offer, knowing that it will use her to kill the Defenders. The Dragon
then mocks Moondragon's sentimentality by showing her what the other
Defenders are saying about her behind her back even though she has
reformed. Finally overwhelmed with pain, she accepts. Now totally
corrupted, Moondragon battles the Defenders until Andromeda, Interloper,
Manslaughter, and Valkyrie sacrifice themselves to kill both her and the
Dragon.

Heather's soul manages to survive, and, now free from the Dragon again,
contacts her cousin Pamela; through her, she is able to obtain a new
body for herself, a clone created on Titan. For a while, she and her
cousin, who becomes the heroine Sundragon, adventure together in
space.

Cosmic cohort

After Quasar is appointed Protector of the Universe, Moondragon
insinuates herself into his life. She becomes an engineer and saleswoman
for Vaughn Security Systems at one point. She is convinced that in time
Quasar will realize they are eminently qualified to form the universe's
most cosmic coupling. Quasar, however, asserts that qualifications have
nothing to do with feelings and rebuffs her. She eventually gets the
message and loses interest in him.

When Adam Warlock seeks people to help him safeguard the Infinity Gems,
he chooses Moondragon to keep the Mind Gem—but only after erecting
safeguards so Moondragon cannot exploit the gem's full power. Still, she
agrees to join his team, the Infinity Watch. She eventually loses
the gem when it is stolen by Rune.

Moondragon later becomes an associate of Genis-Vell (the third Captain
), determined to help him control his cosmic awareness. During
this time, she falls in love with Marlo Chandler, the wife of Rick Jones
(whom Captain  was bonded to). The two elope on a lesbian
relationship to the reluctant understanding of Rick, with whom Marlo is
having marital problems anyway. Sometime later, Marlo gets over her
feelings for Moondragon and decides to return to Rick. Moondragon tells
her she must have accidentally prodded her telepathically into the
relationship, but this is a lie to make the break-up easier. In truth,
Moondragon is heartbroken; she leaves shortly after with Phyla-Vell.

Annihilation

In the Annihilation miniseries, Moondragon and Phyla-Vell return,
visiting the graves of Mar-Vell and Genis-Vell. At this time, Thanos
appears and kidnapps Moondragon, using her as a hostage to draw out Drax
the Destroyer for an unknown purpose. Also, when she is infected with
the Annihilation Wave parasites, she is forced to reveal Annihilus' plan
to destroy all life in the universe, which he would then rule. Thanos
causes her to regurgitate the parasites, having no interest in
Annihilus' plan. However, Thanos' plan for revenge is cut short as Drax
rushes off to save his daughter, which he does by ripping Thanos' heart
out, just before the villain was about to save the universe from
Annihilus. However, Drax and Moondragon then manage to free the Silver
Surfer, who in turn helps free Galactus, destroying Annihlus' plans.
Galactus then teleports away Drax and Moondragon. Moondragon "loses
track" of Drax and is reunited with Phyla-Vell.

Annihilation: Conquest

In Quasar: Annihilation: Conquest, the love of Phyla and Moondragon is
explored in depth. Due to the Phalanx taking over the Kree Empire, Phyla
and Heather have to find the 'savior' that is shown to Phyla (Quasar) in
a vision. They come across the Super-Adaptoid, who was absorbed by the
Phalanx and set to prevent the women from finding the savior. During the
battle, Moondragon has to change into a dragon, like the 'Dragon of the
Moon' she had to fight most of her life. Moondragon cannot change back
into her human form. Moondragon and Phyla follow a voice Phyla hears to
find the savior for the Kree race, who is being attacked by the Phalanx.
In the end, it turns out the voice belongs to the Supreme Intelligence
of the Kree. It helps them find a cocoon, which is restoring Adam
Warlock. The cocoon breaks open and Phyla and Moondragon ask Warlock to
help them fight against the Phalanx. Shortly after, the Phalanx arrives,
led by the murderous android Ultron. Moondragon attempts to protect
Phyla, and Ultron responds by plunging his arm into her chest. Heather
dies shortly after in Phyla's arms.

Sometime later, Phyla and Drax are alerted by a prophet that Moondragon
may be attempting to return. Mentor concludes that this may be the case,
and so kills the two of them so that they may journey into the realm of
the dead to retrieve her. Phyla saves Moondragon from the gullet of the
Dragon of the Moon, and they return to life.

Guardians of the Galaxy

After her resurrection, Moondragon joins Phyla back at Knowhere and is
accepted as an unofficial member of the Guardians of the Galaxy. She
assists Cosmo and Mantis as part of the telepathic support team. Her
resurrection leaves her mind more open than it had been before her
death, so she is able to detect things before either Mantis or Cosmo do.
Her increased sensitivity also leaves her more vulnerable to psychic
manipulation by Starhawk, who has herself released from confinement.

With Phyla's death at the hands of Adam Magus, Moondragon takes it upon
herself to become a field agent for the Guardians of the Galaxy.
However, she becomes host to an alien parasite originating in a parallel
universe across the Fault, a time-space tear created by Black Bolt's
Terrigen Bomb. Worse, she is biometrically cuffed by Cynosure, leader of
the Luminals (an organization of heroic alien superhumans from the
planet Xarth III), who intends to have the creature tried for killing
one of her fellow Luminals. To make things worse, members of the Church
of Universal Truth kidnap Moondragon and Cynosure, seeing the parasite
as a god, whom they intend to birth. Luckily, the Guardians and Luminals
mount a joint rescue attempt and extract the two. With the help of
Knowhere's medical staff, they are able to remove the organism from
Moondragon. During these experiences, Moondragon has visions of a cocoon
and Phyla being alive.


Powers and abilities

Heather Douglas is a human who has accessed her full psionic potential
through extreme training under the Titanian monks of Shao-Lom. She is
also highly educated in Titanian science and is a master martial artist.

Moondragon primarily possesses tremendous telepathic abilities which
have enabled her to control the population of an entire planet to stop
an ongoing war, while enslaving the thunder god Thor as her personal
lover. She has demonstrated willpower and spiritual strength
rivaling that of Thanos, and the Sorcerer Supreme Doctor
Strange, pierced the psionic shields of the cosmic entity Galactus
to enable communication, and when borrowing her abilities, Thanos almost
manages to overwhelm the Devourer.

Beyond communication and control of other minds, she can induce mental
illusions, cause personality changes, and erase specific memories. She
can also fire bolts of psionic energy as concussive blasts that can
either stun an opponent or render an opponent brain dead.

She is also a low-level telekinetic, an ability that lets her move and
manipulate most physical matter by using only her thoughts, levitate
herself and others, create shields of psychic force, and fire concussive
psychokinetic energy blasts with sufficient strength to affect steel.

Moondragon has undergone extreme levels of training in the Titanian
martial arts, as well as mental disciplines allowing her near-complete
control over her body, including autonomic functions such as heartbeat,
bleeding, and breathing, as well as awareness of pain. She has honed her
strength, speed, stamina, agility and reflexes to her highest limits.
Her martial arts skills have even allowed her to beat Captain
America and Mantis in hand-to-hand combat.

Heather possesses a genius intellect and is extremely knowledgeable in
various areas of advanced Titanian scientific disciplines such as
genetics and bionics and has been able to upgrade the cyborgs Ramrod and
Angar the Screamer and restore Daredevil's eyesight. She is also a
highly skilled starship pilot.

She has demonstrated the ability to assume the form of her namesake, a
fire-breathing dragon capable of surviving in outer space, traversing
interstellar distances. However, it is unclear if she retains this
ability after her latest resurrection.

Moondragon's powers are not without weaknesses. For instance, Rick Jones
is able to stop Moondragon's telepathy by taping her to a chair,
covering her eyes and mouth with duct tape, and placing headphones on
her ears that blast deafening Limp Bizkit nu metal music. This causes
Moondragon to lose touch with her senses and concentration, thus leaving
her powerless.

Moondragon also suffers from emotional instability due to her isolated
upbringing and intense superiority complex, which alienates her from her
environment. This sometimes causes her to coerce decisions or render
ruthless judgment. However, more positive later relationships have
helped her emotional state, particularly her relationship with
Phyla-Vell, which has allowed her to be more open and compassionate
towards others.

During the early 1990s, she gains possession of the "Mind Gem," which
enhances her psionic powers to an unknown, potentially unlimited degree.
Adam Warlock has apparently instituted some unknown safeguards within
the gem to prevent her from misusing it.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

In the Age of Apocalypse timeline, Moondragon has never accessed her
full psionic potential and instead was approached by and joined Quentin
Quire's group of low level telepaths to create a kind of "psychic
pyramid scheme" known as the Overmind which Quentin uses to increase his
own limited skills.

Heather along with the telepaths that compose the Overmind are later
confronted and killed by the Shadow King.

Ultimate 

In the first issue of the Ultimate Extinction arc, as part of the
Ultimate  line, a bald woman with a dragon tattoo and considerable
martial arts prowess attacks Misty Knight. A computer database later
identifies the woman as Heather Douglas, who has been dead for
decades.

This woman is revealed to be a clone of the original Heather Douglas.
There are in fact hundreds of these clones (as well as a male
equivalent, bald clones of an unnamed man). These clones were created by
a cult that worships Gah Lak Tus (the Ultimate version of Galactus).
They try to destroy S.H.I.E.L.D. and face the Ultimates and the X-Men
while other heroes attempt to deal with the threat of Gah Lak Tus.

 Zombies

In the original  Zombies series, Moondragon is briefly seen as
one of the many infected heroes.

 Adventures: Fantastic Four

Moondragon runs a "Hall of Magic Mirrors" in a carnival. She aids the
Fantastic Four in battling Baron Mordo in this wordless tale.


In other media

Television

-   Moondragon appears in the X-Men animated series episode "Beyond
    Good and Evil (Part 3)" in a non-speaking role.

Video games

-   Moondragon appears as an NPC in  Heroes, voiced by Mary
    Elizabeth McGlynn.

Parody

-   Moondragon also appears in the MAD episode "Captain America's Got
    Talent", voiced by Rachel Ramras. She read from a computer stating
    she was an Avenger for 22 seconds.

