MORBIUS THE LIVING VAMPIRE, a scientist named DR. MICHAEL MORBIUS
PHD, MD, is a fictional character appearing in American comic
books published by . Created by writer Roy Thomas and
originally designed by penciler Gil Kane, the character first appeared
as an antagonist in The Amazing Spider-Man #101 (Oct. 1971). Morbius
went on to become a heroic, tragically flawed protagonist in his own
series and other titles. Morbius is a man suffering from vampiric
abilities and physical traits resulting from a biochemical experiment,
as opposed to supernatural means.


Publication history

Morbius debuted in The Amazing Spider-Man #101 (cover-dated Oct. 1971)
following the February 1971 updating of the comic-book industry's
self-censorship board, the Comics Code Authority, that lifted a ban on
vampires and certain other supernatural characters. It was the first
issue of ' flagship Spider-Man series written by someone
other than character co-creator and editor-in-chief Stan Lee. Lee, busy
writing a screenplay for an unproduced science fiction movie,
bequeathed the series to his right-hand editor, Roy Thomas. "We were
talking about doing Dracula, but Stan wanted a costumed villain. Other
than that, he didn't specify what we should do," Thomas said in 2009,
adding that part of the character conception came from an unspecified
science-fiction film of Thomas' youth, depicting a man turned into a
vampire by radiation rather than magic. Thomas said the name
"Morbius" was not deliberately taken from the antagonist Doctor Morbius
in the movie Forbidden Planet.

Thomas and penciler co-creator Gil Kane created the character as a man
who is given vampiric abilities and traits via scientific rather than
supernatural means. Kane based the character's look on that of actor
Jack Palance.

A tragic and sympathetic antagonist in his initial two-issue arc, having
acquired his vampiric addiction while researching a cure for his own
rare, fatal blood disease, Morbius collided again with Spider-Man and
others in  Team-Up #3-4 (July & Sept. 1972). Morbius went on to
star in Vampire Tales, a black-and-white horror-comics magazine
published by 's sister company, Curtis Magazines, appearing in all
but two of the mature-audience title's 11 issues (Aug. 1973 - June
1975). All but the first and last of these were written by Don
McGregor, with penciling by Rich Buckler and by Tom Sutton, primarily.
[Adventure into Fear #20 (Feb. 1974), Morbius' first starring feature
in color comics. Cover art by Gil Kane and Frank Giacoia.] After his
first two Vampire Tales stories, Morbius concurrently became the star
of his own feature in 's bimonthly Adventure into Fear anthology
series, beginning with issue #20 (Feb. 1974) and continuing through #31
(Dec. 1975), the final issue of that title. These were written,
successively, by Mike Friedrich, Steve Gerber (who had written the first
Morbius solo story, in Vampire Tales), Doug Moench, and Bill Mantlo,
working with a wide variety of pencilers. During this period, Morbius
again appeared as an antagonist in the Spider-Man one-shot, Giant-Size
Super-Heroes #1, published in June 1974.

Following sporadic guest appearances throughout the next 16 years,
Morbius was revived in the 1992 series Morbius the Living Vampire,
launched as part of the "Rise of the Midnight Sons" crossover story arc
in  supernatural/horror comics. It ran 32 issues (Sept. 1992 -
April 1995). These later stories add to his repertoire of powers the
ability to hypnotize others, and describe his ability to fly as psionic
in nature. A one-shot special tentatively titled
Spider-Man/Venom/Morbius by Morbius writer Len Kaminski was
scheduled for 1993, but never saw print due to the writer's departure
from the series out of disgust with Morbius penciler Ron Wagner.
Wagner felt that Kaminski's stories were too character-driven, and
Kaminski claims that Wagner complained about the stories to the
editorial staff and left "snide margin notes in which he made his
personal opinion of my plots clear" (Kaminski would see these notes
because he and Wagner worked under the  method), but ignored
Kaminski's attempts to get in touch with him so that they could discuss
how the comic should be done. Series colorist Gregory Wright stepped
in as writer with issue #9 and delivered the bloodshed-heavy stories
Wagner wanted. Despite this, Wagner lasted just six issues longer
than Kaminski on the series. Wright stayed with Morbius through issue
#23.

Alongside the core series Morbius the Living Vampire, a reprint
series, Morbius Revisited, was published from 1992 to 1993, and
featured material originally published in Adventure into Fear #27-31.
Solo stories starring Morbius also appeared in  Presents
#144 (Late Dec. 1993), several issues of the Midnight Sons Unlimited
series (1993–1995), the one-shot Strange Tales: Dark Corners #1 (May
1998), Amazing Fantasy, vol. 2, #17 (March 2006), and the one-shot
Legion of Monsters: Morbius (Sept. 2007)

On October 17, 2012,  announced that Morbius would appear in a new
comic by writer Joe Keatinge and artist Richard Elson, beginning January
2013.


Fictional character biography

Michael Morbius was born in Greece. He was attacked by the Lizard and
defeated when Spider-Man and the Lizard joined forces. A flashback
reveals that Morbius was a Nobel Prize-winning biochemist, who had
attempted to cure himself of a rare blood disease with an experimental
treatment involving vampire bats and electroshock therapy. However, he
instead became afflicted with a far worse condition, "pseudo-vampirism,"
that mimicked the powers and blood-thirst of legendary vampirism.
Morbius now had to digest blood in order to survive and had a strong
aversion to light. He gained the ability to fly, as well as superhuman
strength, speed, and healing abilities. His appearance, already ugly,
became hideous—-his canine teeth extended into fangs, his nose flattened
to appear more like a bat's, and his skin became chalk-white. He also
gained the ability to turn others into similar "living vampires" by
biting them, infecting them with the disease of
pseudo-vampirism. He later sought a cure for his condition, but
battled Spider-Man, the Human Torch, and the original X-Men. He
caused John Jameson to again become Man-Wolf. Alongside Man-Wolf, he
battled Spider-Man again.

Morbius later rescued Amanda Saint from the Demon-Fire Cult, and aided
her in her quest for her missing parents. He battled Reverend
Daemond, and encountered the Caretakers of Arcturus IV. He visited the
Land Within, home of the Cat People, and the planet Arcturus IV. He also
first encountered Blade. He then first encountered Simon Stroud, and
battled the Helleyes. Alongside the "Legion of Monsters," he then
encountered the Starseed. Morbius then battled the Thing,
encountered the Living Eraser, and traveled to Dimension Z. He later
returned to Earth, and battled Spider-Man again.

He once again fought Spider-Man, but then he was hit by a lightning
strike, which cured him of his pseudo-vampirism (while retaining a
thirst for blood). While cured he was charged with the crimes he had
committed as a vampire and was represented by the She-Hulk. He
eventually resumed his pseudo-vampire state, and first met Doctor
Strange. Alongside Doctor Strange and Brother Voodoo, he battled
Marie Leveau, and witnessed the resurgence of true vampires. Morbius
later battled Spider-Man in the New York sewers.

[Cover of Morbius, the Living Vampire #17.] The Ghost Rider and John
Blaze searched for Morbius to form the Nine and stop Lilith and the
Lilin from taking over the world. When they found Morbius, the vampire
believed they would kill him but Ghost Rider and John Blaze successfully
captured him. Doctor Langford, who tried to help Morbius' wounds, was
trying to kill him and was working for Doctor Paine. He made an unknown
mutagenic serum that would prove fatal to Morbius. Unknown to Doctor
Langford, Fang, one of Lilith's children, was also trying to kill
Morbius by adding his own demonic blood to the serum, which would also
be fatal to Morbius. When Doctor Langford injected the serum to Morbius,
it did not kill him, but instead mutated him. Morbius' friend, Jacob was
trying to look inside of him and see what he could do about Morbius'
condition. After Martine Bancroft, Morbius' ex-fiancée, found out that
Langford was trying to kill him, Langford shot her and she bled to
death. Morbius found this out and was enraged to find his ex-fiancée
dead. He later avenged the death of Martine Bancroft by killing Langford
and took the beaker which contained the serum. Ghost Rider and John
Blaze later found out Morbius' destruction. The Ghost Rider confronted
him and would not tolerate Morbius drinking any more innocent blood.
Morbius then vowed he would only drink the blood of the guilty. The
Ghost Rider accepted the vow, but warned him not to stray from it.
Morbius soon became part of the Midnight Sons.

Later, a new faction of Vampires led by Hunger, the next evolution of
the supervillain Crown, tried to destroy Morbius because he had been
genetically manipulated to be the perfect weapon. The chest in which he
was to be delivered was intercepted by the Kingpin, Blade, and
Spider-Man, and he attacked all three. Whatever unknown party
manipulated him failed; he collapsed after one battle, possibly dying.
With his last breath he warned Spider-Man to beware of his employer,
Stuart Ward.

It was later revealed that Morbius had signed the Superhuman
Registration Act and was cooperating with S.H.I.E.L.D. in an effort to
capture Blade. He had also presumably survived his genetic
manipulation, as Blade was able to distinguish him as the same Morbius
who 'Took a Bite out of [him]' in their previous encounter.

Morbius was next seen as a member of A.R.M.O.R. held captive by the
Morbius from the  Zombies universe. He survived the
invasion, killing his zombified counterpart in the process. Shortly
after, he formed a new Midnight Sons with Jennifer Kale, Daimon
Hellstrom, Jack Russell, and Man-Thing to contain a zombie outbreak on
an isolated island, briefly running afoul of the Hood in the
process.

Morbius later helped the Man-Thing reassemble a decapitated Punisher
into a Frankenstein-like monster called FrankenCastle.

During The Gauntlet storyline, Morbius was behind the theft of a vial
of Spider-Man's blood. Spider-Man, learning that Morbius is planning to
use the blood samples to create a cure for Jack Russell. agreed to help
Morbius by giving him more blood.

During the Origin of the Species storyline, Morbius was among the
supervillains recruited by Doctor Octopus to secure some item for
him.

During the events of Spider-Island it was revealed to the reader that
Morbius was the mysterious Number Six working at Horizon Labs. He
assisted, in a hazmat suit to protect his identity, in preparing the
cure to the spider-powers virus. When Peter Parker tried to
investigate the identity of "Number Six," he accidentally provoked
Morbius—who had been using the cure to try to develop a basis for his
own condition—into a frenzy, prompting the staff at Horizon to step up
building security (making it harder for Peter to enter and exit the
building as Spider-Man in future) and also driving Morbius to leave,
where it was revealed that he had been working with the Lizard,
presumably trying to find a cure for both of their conditions. Using
DNA samples from the corpse of Billy Connors, Morbius was able to create
a cure that would restore the Lizard to human form, but he failed to
recognize that the Lizard had fully destroyed Curt Connors' human
persona. They left the Lizard alone in Morbius' lab, allowing the
Lizard to release blood into the lab's air supply to provoke the injured
Morbius into attacking the other Horizon scientists. This prompted
Morbius to flee the lab with Spider-Man in pursuit. Morbius was
captured by Spider-Man and locked up in a cell in the Raft.

When Spider-Man in Doctor Octopus' dying body needs some supervillains
to help capture Spider-Man (whose body is being occupied by Doctor
Octopus' mind), Morbius offers to help, but is rejected. Morbius
eventually escapes from the Raft, and flees to Brownsville.


Enemies and allies

Morbius was first introduced as a villain in the pages of The Amazing
Spider-Man._ He would return to battle Spider-Man over the years in the
pages of  Team-Up Vol.1 #3-4; Peter Parker, the Spectacular
Spider-Man #6-8 and #38; Morbius the Living Vampire #3-4 and #21-23;
and later in Peter Parker, Spider-Man Vol.1 #77-80 and Vol.2 #8.

Spider-Man and Morbius formed an uneasy alliance during the Maximum
Carnage crossover series.

Blade the Vampire Hunter and Morbius have had an ongoing feud which
began in Adventure into Fear #24. The two also clashed in 
Preview #8, Blade the Vampire Hunter #8, Blade Vol.1 #2-3, and
Blade Vol.4 #5. Blade, while possessed by a demonic presence, killed
Morbius in Morbius the Living Vampire #12, but Morbius was resurrected
in Spirits of Vengeance #13.

Simon Stroud, a rogue CIA agent first introduced in the pages of
Creatures on the Loose,_ has been hunting Morbius since Adventure into
Fear #27. Stroud and Morbius last clashed in Morbius the Living
Vampire #23.

During the run of Morbius the Living Vampire,_ Morbius crossed paths
with a handful of brand new foes. They included: Vic Slaughter
(introduced in issue #7), the Basilisk (Wayne Gifford) (introduced
in issue #5), Doctor Paine (introduced in issue #4), and Bloodthirst
(first seen in issue #20). During this same period, Morbius also
battled a new villain, called Bloodbath, in Midnight Sons Unlimited
#2.

Morbius has had a friendship with Jack Russell (Werewolf by Night) since
West Coast Avengers #5, where Morbius helped Russell deal with his
werewolf curse. Werewolf by Night was a frequent guest-star in the pages
of Morbius the Living Vampire._ Together with Man-Thing and Ghost Rider
(Johnny Blaze), they formed the short-lived Legion of Monsters.

Morbius and Doctor Strange have teamed-up on several occasions. Morbius
appeared sporadically throughout the run of Doctor Strange: Sorcerer
Supreme, beginning with issue #10. Doctor Strange recruited Morbius as
one of "the Nine" a.k.a. the Midnight Sons, a team with only one
purpose: Earth's last defense against the occult.


Powers and abilities

Michael Morbius experienced a transformation by electrical shock
treatment and chemical ingestion into a pseudo-vampire. As a
pseudo-vampire, Morbius does not possess all the powers of an actual
vampire, nor is he subject to all the traditional limitations and
weaknesses thereof. He possesses a variety of superhuman powers, some of
which are similar to supernatural vampires within the  Universe.
Due to his vampire-like condition, Morbius is forced to ingest fresh
blood on a regular basis to sustain his life and vitality. How much
blood he requires and how often he has to feed has not been specified in
the comics. However, Morbius does not possess any of the mystical
vulnerabilities that supernatural vampires are subject to, such as
garlic, holy water, crucifix, or silver. Morbius has a strong aversion
to sunlight, thanks to his photo-sensitive skin which prevents any
protection from major sun burn, in contrast to "true" vampires that are
incinerated by it, with the result that he can move in daylight but his
powers are diminished and he will stick to the shade if circumstances
demand him to be active during the day. Morbius also lacks the
shape-shifting and weather-control powers, and the ability to control
animals, of vampires. Like "true" vampires, Morbius does possess the
ability to hypnotize beings of lesser willpower and bring them under his
control, which can only be resisted by those possessing an extremely
strong will. While briefly infected by the demon Bloodthirst, Morbius
gained the ability to liquidize his body, moving through small spaces
and stretching his limbs as needed. He lost these abilities when he and
Bloodthirst split.

Morbius possesses an accelerated healing factor and can recover from
mild to moderate injuries at a rate beyond that of ordinary humans.
While not nearly as efficient as the healing powers possessed by
Wolverine, Morbius has proven able to heal from multiple gunshot wounds
in less than an hour. More severe injuries, such as broken bones or
severe burns, might take several days to heal, but once was shown to
take minutes even though it left him as a near-mindless creature who
must feed to replenish the energy that was used to do so. He is unable
to regenerate missing limbs or organs.

Most of Morbius' victims die or are severely injured by his bite. Unlike
supernatural vampires, Morbius' victims do not necessarily become
vampires themselves. There have only been six instances where Morbius'
bite has turned other individuals into vampires: Jefferson Bolt (a young
man first seen in  Team-Up #3), Emilio (a young man first shown
in Peter Parker, the Spectacular Spider-Man #7), Vic Slaughter (a
bounty hunter who first appeared in Morbius the Living Vampire #7),
Nate Grey (in X-Man #24), Roxy (a junkie dying of a drug overdose in
Legion of Monsters: Morbius #1) and Blade the vampire hunter (in
Peter Parker: Spider-Man #8). The causes behind these transformations
have never been clearly explained, even though in Blade's case, Morbius'
bite combined with his unique physiology to turn him into a part-vampire
with all the strengths of a traditional vampire and none of the
weaknesses.

The irradiated blood of Spider-Man causes Morbius's vampirism to go into
remission. As a result, after drinking Spider-Man's blood, Morbius does
not need to feed again for some time. Morbius once developed a serum
based on Spider-Man's blood, which would stave off his vampirism for
short periods of time.

Morbius possesses the ability of transvection, navigating wind currents
and gliding for various distances. In Morbius the Living Vampire #2,
it was alluded to that this ability may be related to hyper-evolved
portions of his brain caused by a combination of his blood disease and
vampiric condition.

Even before he contracted the disease of pseudo-vampirism, Michael
Morbius already possessed a gifted intellect, and he is an expert
biologist, biochemist and neuroradiologist with a Ph.D. in
biochemistry, and a Nobel laureate. He also attended medical school,
where he specialized in hematology.


Other versions

House of M

In the House of M series, Michael Morbius appears in a flashback as
one of the scientists that gave Luke Cage his powers.

 MAX

Morbius appears in Dead of Night Featuring: Werewolf by Night as one
the anomalous beings contained and experimented on by the Babylon Group.
When Jack Russell attempts to escape from the Babylon Group with his
infant daughter, the facility tries to stop him by unleashing Morbius,
and a Frankenstein's Monster. In the ensuing brawl, Morbius's heart is
punched out by the Frankenstein's Monster.

[Ultimate Morbius, The Living Vampire.]

 Zombies 3

A zombified version of Morbius appears in the 2008-2009  Zombies
3. The real Morbius of Earth-616 (mainstream universe) is kidnapped and
beaten by his zombie counterpart who found a way from the  Zombies
universe into the  universe. Zombie Morbius holds the normal one
captive while using a latex mask to look normal. It is revealed that
he plans to infect every member of the Fifty State Initiative with the
zombie virus. His captivity is later inadvertently uncovered by an
A.R.M.O.R. team member whom Morbius tries to warn of an impending
attack. The warning comes too late as Morbius' counterpart attacks the
team member and infects her, thus creating a violent chain of events
after she attacks another team member. Towards the end of the crisis
the real Morbius appears out of nowhere and grabs a tree, which he uses
as a stake and stabs the zombiefied version from behind and straight
into the heart killing him instantly.

Ultimate 

The Ultimate  version of Morbius first appeared in Ultimate
Spider-Man #95. Unlike the original character from which he was
derived, Ultimate Morbius is a "true" vampire, the son of Dracul, and
brother of Vlad III Dracula himself (who was, in Ultimate 
continuity, the same as the historic ruler from our world, rather than a
vampire), with all of the powers and abilities associated with the usual
interpretation of Dracula. This Morbius, however, seems to be heroically
struggling against his baser instincts, and is in fact a vampire hunter.
He meets Spider-Man in a typical misunderstanding, centering on a cabal
of vampires attacking Ben Urich. He is really trying to stop Urich from
becoming a vampire, which he succeeds in doing despite the conflict.
When Spider-Man is bitten by a vampire, Morbius sniffs him and
determines that he is immune to vampirism.


In other media

Television

[Morbius, the Living Vampire as seen in Spider-Man: The Animated
Series]

-   Morbius appeared in Spider-Man: The Animated Series voiced by Nick
    Jameson. Morbius first appeared in his human form in "The Insidious
    Six" (Season #2, episode 1) and the episode that followed his debut,
    "Battle of the Insidious Six." In these episodes, Morbius has a
    romance with Felicia Hardy (who would later become the Black Cat).
    In the episode titled "Morbius," he stole a vial of Peter Parker's
    blood in the belief this was part of Parker's entry in a science
    competition they were both competing in. While examining the blood
    in his laboratory, one of the vampire bats he was experimenting on
    escaped, and began to lap it up. When Morbius tried to scare the bat
    away, it bit him. The bite infected him with Parker's irradiated
    blood, transforming him into a living vampire. He appeared as a
    villain in the following four episodes: "Enter the Punisher," "Duel
    of the Hunters," "Blade the Vampire Hunter," and "The Immortal
    Vampire." The episode "Blade The Vampire Hunter" revealed that this
    incarnation of the character was vulnerable to garlic and
    garlic-enhanced weaponry. Blade uses garlic gas grenades against him
    and Spider-Man uses similar garlic based oils in his webbing, which
    hurt and nearly restrain Morbius. At the end of "The Immortal
    Vampire," Felicia manages to appeal to Morbius' humanity, and
    Morbius redeems himself at the end of this episode. Later Morbius
    appears in the episodes "The Awakening" and "The Vampire Queen" in
    Season #4. At the end of "The Vampire Queen," Morbius joins forces
    with vampire hunter Blade and Black Cat to stop Blade's evil
    mother, Mirium. This episode reveals that Morbius has a psychic link
    to the more conventionally created supernatural vampires such
    as Miruam. Morbius made a cameo at the beginning and end of the
    tenth episode of the animated version of "Secret Wars," along with
    Blade, who were not only concerned about stopping Mirium but curious
    where the Black Cat had gone. (She had been transported from Earth
    to the Secret Wars planet to fight alongside Spider-Man.) That was
    the last appearance of Morbius in the show. Fundamental changes were
    enforced upon his depiction by Fox, who imposed a heavy level of
    censorship on the series. These changes include being unable to bite
    anyone, despite having fangs and clearly being a vampire. Instead he
    was rendered with suckers on his palms to drain his victims, similar
    to another "Living Vampire" from the  Universe, Bloodscream.
    The word 'blood' was not allowed to be used in any capacity, and was
    replaced with 'plasma'.

-   Michael Morbius appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man episode
    "Anti-Venom," voiced by Benjamin Diskin. This version is a HYRDA
    scientist, who is a big fan of Doctor Octopus, brought in by Arnim
    Zola to work with him. Morbius' questions about Doctor Octopus's
    techniques are "not entirely ignorant". He even provides small
    suggests that help Doctor Octopus create the Anti-Venom symbiote.
    When Spider-Man, Agent Venom, and Harry Osborn in the American Son
    armor find where Doctor Octopus and Morbius are working, Morbius
    witnesses Doctor Octopus infect Harry with the Anti-Venom symbiote.
    As Agent Venom and Norman Osborn in the Iron Patriot armor fight
    Anti-Venom and Doctor Octopus, Spider-Man webs up Morbius, who tells
    him about an ion-powered inhibitor that would be used on Anti-Venom.
    After Spider-Man, Agent Venom, and Iron Patriot get away with Harry
    Osborn, Doctor Octopus finds Morbius webbed up, who states that
    Spider-Man forced the information out of him. Doctor Octopus states
    to Morbius that he is always one step ahead.

Film

-   In 2000,  Entertainment entered into a joint venture agreement
    with Artisan Entertainment to turn at least 15  superhero
    franchises into live-action films, television series,
    direct-to-video films and internet projects. These franchises
    included an adaptation of Morbius.
-   In the bonus features of the Blade DVD under the La Magra title,
    an alternate ending can be seen where Blade, after dispatching
    Deacon Frost, walks out onto the rooftop of a building only to
    glimpse a figure whose identity is concealed behind a cloth mask.
    The film's writer David S. Goyer has stated that he originally
    intended Morbius to be the primary villain should there be a sequel
    to Blade. This was eventually scrapped in favor of the Reaper
    storyline in the actual Blade II film.

Video games

-   Morbius appears as a non-playable "call-in" character in the video
    game Spider-Man and Venom: Maximum Carnage. When summoned, he
    distracts or injures enemies, depending on which title character the
    player is utilizing.
-   Morbius appeared in the Wii, PS2, and PSP versions of Spider-Man 3
    video game voiced by Sean Donnellan. In this version, he has a
    wife - Frances Louise Barrison-Morbius (Shriek). Spider-Man spends
    many parts of the game trying to find a cure for Morbius. This
    involves battling Morbius, involves a part of the Symbiote and his
    wife Francis.
-   In : Ultimate Alliance, Blade mentions Morbius as being the
    one who turned him into a "pseudo-vampire."
-   Michael Morbius appears in The Amazing Spider-Man video game
    (based on The Amazing Spider-Man). He a is biochemist who is
    forced by corrupt Oscorp executive Alistair Smythe into creating the
    Rhino. In a discussion between Spider-Man and Doctor Curt Connors,
    it was mentioned that Michael Morbius was studying bats as a means
    to cure his rare blood disease. He is mocked by his fellow employees
    for being reclusive, hence his nickname "Morbius, the Living
    Vampire."
-   Morbius is a playable character in  Super Hero Squad Online.
-   Morbius appears as an unlockable character in : Avengers
    Alliance.

Spider-Man Newspaper Strip

-   In the Spider-Man newspaper strip, Morbius returns to New York,
    seemingly cured of his vampirism, and with a fiancée, Martine
    Bancroft, in tow; however, at night he begins exhibiting his old
    symptoms and comes into conflict with Spider-Man. It is later
    revealed that his fiance is behind his troubles; indeed, she is also
    revealed to have vampire-like abilities. Confronting his fiance on
    the roof of their apartment, Morbius learns that, in Martine's
    search for a cure to Morbius' vampirism, she stumbled on the tomb of
    Dracula and was attacked and murdered by him. Dracula fed off her
    blood and, in doing so, converted her. Having been secretly
    converting him at night, Martine attempts to persuade Morbius to
    join the brotherhood of vampires by feeding on a human being she has
    captured (Mary Jane Parker) but Morbius refuses. Spider-Man
    interrupts the two, but is knocked unconscious by Martine in a
    brief struggle. Martine demands Morbius feast on Spider-Man's blood,
    but when he again refuses, she threatens the life of MJ. Morbius
    again proves defiant and saves MJ, but in the process Martine loses
    her balance and plummets from the roof, with Morbius diving
    after her. Spider-Man recovers, but can only use his webbing to save
    one of them. He successfully snags Morbius, but Martine falls to
    her death. Morbius forgives Spider-Man and mourns his lost love.

