MOTORMOUTH (HARLEY DAVIS) is a fictional character created by Paul Neary
and developed by writer Graham Marks with initial designs by Gary Frank
(Supreme Power, The Incredible Hulk). As the titular character of her
own series, Motormouth (later MOTORMOUTH & KILLPOWER), was part of a
line of original comics released in the early-to-mid 1990s by  UK.
She is a teenage street-rat from London, England with a fierce temper
who curses constantly. She is 5 ft 4 in tall and weighs roughly 7 st
7 lb / .


Publication history

Motormouth ran for twelve issues with Harley and later her partner
Killpower going to various alternative realities from the regular 
Universe.


Fictional character biography

Harley is orphaned at age 11 and grows up as part of a gang that lives
in the East End of London. They survive by foraging and stealing. Her
incredibly foul language earns her the nickname "Motormouth". When she
is seventeen, Harley is discovered by Laarson, an agent of Mys-Tech, the
shadowy organisation that featured in all of  UK's 1990s titles.
Harley is a candidate for his MOPED (Mind Operated PErsonal
Dematerialization) technology. This allows people to jump between
alternative realities but will only operate on people with certain
strands of DNA. The unit is disguised as a pair of training shoes, which
Harley finds and tries on. At the same time Laarson is being executed by
Mys-Tech's Techno-Wizards and agents were sent to find the MOPED units.
In order to save her and the units, Laarson's subordinates activate the
technology and send her to another universe.

While still on the run from Mys-Tech, Harley is sent to a future in
which the world was covered in shopping malls. It was here she purchases
a Soni-Muta 500 Unit, a microchip that allows her to mentally tune in to
any radio station she wanted. This would later give her her sonic
scream. Harley returns to her own universe and is captured and put to
work by Mys-Tech. She escapes after a mission to Tokyo, Japan.

Killpower

She has to make a random jump in order to escape and ends up on a planet
named Tekron. Killpower, an agent of Mys-Tech, is sent to find her.
Unable to escape him, Harley reasons with the man instead. Mentally
little more than a small child, Killpower becomes intrigued by Harley
and joins her as her partner. Harley is then badly injured on Tekron
when a stray bullet hit her in the throat. Killpower uses her Soni-Muta
500 and the MOPED technology to cure her. This not only gave her the
aforementioned sonic scream, she could now travel between universes
without the aid of technology. Both are then forced to flee from
Mys-Tech's influence.

Motormouth and Killpower appeared in the Battletide mini-series.
Death's Head is hired by Mys-Tech to retrieve Killpower. While the two
fought, Motormouth and Tuck (Death's Head partner) went on a shopping
spree on an alien planet. Motormouth and Killpower later plan an attack
on Tyburn, a powerful Mys-Tech agent. Harley is able to steal their
MOPED unit and neutralize the tracking devices Mys-Tech had implanted in
the duo. Tyburn survives the attack.

Saving the world

Motormouth becomes an essential part of the Mys-Tech Wars mini-series.
At first, she is just one of many superheroes attacking the main
Mys-Tech complex, hoping to take down the Techno-Wizards, the heads of
Mys-Tech.

The wizards fight back successfully, slaughtering most of the heroes.
Death-Head kills them in return. Unfortunately this endangers all of
Earth. A fortunate fall from Killpower allows six heroes, Motormouth
included, to break free of the melee and patch themselves into the
required equipment so they can save the Earth from destruction. The
others, such as Doctor Strange and Professor X, bring powerful forces to
the mix. Motormouth ends up simply sitting in the sixth chair to fill
out the required number of entities.

The Earth is saved and time is reversed, undoing all the deaths that
have occurred. Only the last six remember any of which had happened.

Time Guardian and the Hulk

In the Dark Guard mini-series, both Motormouth and Killpower are
recruited by the Time Guardian to help stop a war on the planet Eopia.
The war had been caused by Tyburn and Mys-Tech agents have infiltrated
both sides of the war. Motormouth is instrumental in stopping a powerful
Mys-Tech agent called Collapsar who had captured Killpower. Her
extra-sensory vision allowed her to see microfractures in his torso
which in turn allowed Death's Head to smash him.

Motormouth and Killpower guest-starred in an issue of Incredible Hulk,
illustrated by Motormouth's co-creator Gary Frank. The Hulk literally
falls onto their dinner table. This is after the Hulk fights the villain
Madman. Killpower and Hulk briefly fight. The Hulk proves himself more
than a match for her obscene language. The trio team up to rescue Prince
Charles from Madman, who had taken him up the side of Big Ben. Though he
is dropped off the side, Charles escapes injury. In the ensuing battle,
Harley accidentally brings down London Bridge and Madman escapes.

Motormouth and Killpower came under the attention of Nigel
Orpington-Smythe, leader of the R.C.X. a British Intelligence Agency
from the comic book Excalibur._ Security footage stills of the two were
shown to Captain Britain as an example of the lawless vigilantism that
Smythe sought to control. R.C.X was neutralized before they became a
threat to Harley.

Issue #12, the last of the series, features Motormouth visiting a
homeless encampment on the South Side of the River Thames in London,
England. It's revealed she used to live there, though she did not enjoy
it. The two heroes, along with Death's Head, defeat and kill a murderous
A.I.M. construct that had taken on the mannerisms of the local homeless
population. The second part of the issue features the two battling
fanatical, naive worshippers of a lost alien being. In defeating the
being, Killpower becomes the world's new god.

Post-series appearances

Two new stories were planned before  UK fell. Motormouth versus
Removal Man was partially drawn and had her fighting a Mys-Tech
assassin who made his targets never exist in the first place (boasting
one of his finest jobs was the Fantastic Five). Motormouth Remix would
have had her hopping through alternate realities looking for Killpower
and running into versions of  US characters, to connect  UK
more to their parent company.

Harley has since had a cameo appearance in the Avengers Forever
mini-series.

Some time later, she becomes a reserve agent for MI:13. While trying to
rescue Faiza Hussain's parents, she was hospitalised. Dracula.

When Mys-Tech tried to send all of Britain to Hell, Motormouth and
Killpower fought at the Battle of London Bridge. She was also sucked
into Hell but Killpower saved her and the other heroes, leaving himself
trapped in the inferno. Harley was left depressed and quit MI:13,
living instead on a council estate in London, where she was known for
her work fighting the vampire invasion. She became the single mother to
two children, Victoria and Albert (named after pubs), and every so often
she'd be attacked by (and kill) a former Mys-Tech monster who thought
she was an easy target. After one attack, she learned her children were
psychic mutants who were removing her memories of the monsters to stop
her being sad.

She temporarily rejoined MI:13  and led an army of British heroes to
the Shard to fight an invasion from Hell. To Harley's shock, it turned
out Hell's leader was a transformed Killpower, who had been manipulated
by Mephisto into believing she'd abandoned him. Killpower tried to kill
her but her sonic scream managed to clear his mind; realising he'd been
made into "a bad man", he allowed Britain's super-soldiers to kill him.
A distraught Harley was approached by Nick Fury to join SHIELD (and
angrily chewed him out).


Other versions

A future version of Harley appears in Excalibur #67 (July 1993).
Working with other heroes to protect an enclave of innocent people, she
steps up to battle a wave of Sentinels. Both sides inflict heavy
casualties. Harley is one of the many disintegrated by the robot's
weapons.


Powers and abilities

Harley can create deafening sounds and force blasts by screaming or
shouting, similar to the X-Men's Banshee or ' Black Canary. By
humming at a low pitch, she can use ultrasound to see through solid
objects. She can also jump between alternate universes using the MOPED
technology built into her. This technology also allows her to sense
threats outside her normal field or range of senses. She also seems to
have some ability to sense various forms of energy.


Notes

