MURMUR is the name of two fictional characters who appear in the 
Comics universe.


Murmur (Hellions)

MURMUR (ALLAN RENNIE) is a fictional mutant character in the 
Comics Universe who first appeared in Generation X #11.

Fictional character biography

Not much is known of the mutant known as Murmur apart from that he was
mutated into pseudo-vampiric form by Emplate. He then joined a team that
Emplate gathered to torment Generation X, including Bulwark, Vincente,
and DOA. In an uncharacteristic move, Emplate not only recruited mutants
for his team but a human as well: a woman named Gayle Edgerton from
Generation X member Chamber's past. When Chamber's powers first
manifested he had unintentionally paralyzed Gayle and Emplate offered
her a chance for revenge, turning her into one of his vampiric minions
as well. They were successful in capturing the young mutants, but M had
telepathically called for help and it was answered by the X-Man Bishop.
Vincente and Murmur teamed up to try to defeat him, but when Murmur saw
that he would soon be defeated, he fled along with Bulwark. With
Penance's realignment of alliances they were successful in stopping the
team.

He was de-powered after M-Day.

Powers and abilities

Completely wrapped in bandages, Murmur could open teleportation portals
in space within his line of sight, had enhanced strength and durability
(like all of the Emplate minions) and had a large mouth in chest.

Bibliography

-   Generation X #11-12, 14


Murmur (Arlette Truffaut)

MURMUR (ARLETTE TRUFFAUT) is a mutant character, a superhero in the
 universe. She is a former member of the superhero team
Alpha Flight, currently in Beta Flight.

Fictional character biography

Murmur would become part of Alpha Flight during a time when they were
being heavily mentally influenced by the Canadian government. One of her
main duties is to mentally control the powerful beast known as
Sasquatch, which was believed to be former Alpha Flight member Walter
Langowski. During one of her first missions, against the criminal
organization known as Zodiac, she loses control of Sasquatch and he
attacks both friend and foe. Murmur is later lost to the mental control
of Mesmero, along with some of her teammates. Though she breaks free,
she doesn't manage to control Sasquatch in time and he injures her.
Manbot sedates Sasquatch.

She is initially attracted to her teammate Radius but he purposely
rejects her advances. In a move that puzzles Vindicator, she flirts with
the now-younger Guardian, offering on more than one occasion to use her
powers to make his injuries feel better.

Murmur comes with when the team is sent to kidnap Wolverine for the
supposed murder of the ex-Alpha Flight member Box.

The team meets up with Wolverine on a heavily forested road near an
abandoned gas station. Murmur and Sasquatch investigate the hopping form
of the man with Wolverine, who was in reality, Sauron, a powerful mutant
in his own right.

Wolverine summons help and a fight breaks out between the two teams. It
concludes on peaceful terms, due to the willingness of teammate Flex who
wanted to talk instead of battle. Also, Alpha Flight is unsure of the
motives behind the fight, as they have uncovered discrepancies.

The mind-controlling leader of Alpha Flight, Jeremey Clarke, dies in a
battle with the criminal organization known as Zodiac. Murmur is also
shot in the leg by forces of the same group and is sidelined from action
for some time. She does not take this well, expressing a need for simply
physical contact, even platonic.

Powers and abilities

She has been depowered by Decimation

MIND MANIPULATION: Psionic ability that allows her to manipulate others
upon physical contact; by touching them they are completely under her
control and obey verbal commands. Such as when she touched Puck and told
him to sleep and he immediately fell asleep. She even had the power to
calm the savage Sasquatch II, which was the actual Sasquatch of myth not
Walter the original Sasquatch on Alpha Flight. She also has been shown
to free people that were under Mesmero's control. There are two
instances that show there is more to Murmur than meets the eye. When
Alpha Flight was battling Mesmero, she demonstrated that she could kill
a person using her power, this is not typical for a mind-controller.
Another incident came when Radius was under the control of Mesmero and
to break his control Murmur had to make physical contact with him. His
forcefield prevents that so it's not known how she accomplished this.
They later discuss it in the series, but never give a clear answer.
Another odd incident was when X-Men's Maggott ordered his own maggots to
attack Murmur; they ran away without even touching her. When she touched
Maggott she had a flashback to Hull House where she was getting attacked
by bugs and monsters, this was never explained
TELEPORTATION: In  X-Men Encyclopedia [Vol.2] they state Murmur
has teleportation abilities. However, this was never fully explained.
This comes from Alpha Flight's battle with the Zodiac, Murmur touched
the Zodiac member named Virgo and said "Paris." Immediately Virgo
vanished saying "Scorpio I'm fading awayyy", (unusual given that someone
under Murmur's control usually doesn't have independent thought). Virgo
ended up in Paris, France with a type of amnesia. The Zodiac did have
personal teleportation devices, but how Murmur would know this is a
mystery. Also how Virgo would activate it and teleport to Paris is
another mystery since Taurus later had to retrieve her as her teleporter
was broken. The range of Murmur's actual ability to teleport was never
stated.

Bibliography

-   Alpha Flight vol. 2 #1-20
-   Uncanny X-Men #355
-   Alpha Flight/Inhumans Annual 1998
-   Wolverine vol. 2 #142


Notes

-   There is a member of Hellbent known as MURMUR. He had a completely
    black appearance and was very pliable. He first appeared and was
    killed in the same issue, Moon Knight vol. 3 #50, after failing to
    capture bloodline for Seth the Immortal.
-   In the early issues of the second series of ALPHA FLIGHT it was
    stated she was one of the non-mutants, the only mutants on the team
    being Flex and Radius, however this has obviously been changed.
-   Her last name coincides with the last name of La Nuit of X-Statix.
-   In Generation X #57, a character with a similar mummified
    appearance—but vastly different powers—named WRAP is with
    Emplate's gang. They attack the Massachusetts Academy to, once
    again, try and recapture Penance but their attempts are foiled. In
    the process, a building blows up and the M Twins are knocked free
    from the Penance body.

