NARA is a fictional character from .


Publication history

Nara first appeared in issue #1 of the Avengers Arena series as part
of the  NOW!_ event, and was created by Dennis Hopeless and Kev
Walker.


Fictional character biography

Nara is an Atlantean that attended the Braddock Academy (England's
version of the Avengers Academy). She was secretly dating Kid Briton,
even though he was in a relationship with Katy Bashir at that time. Nara
is one of sixteen teenagers kidnapped by Arcade who forces them to fight
each other to the death in his latest version of Murderworld. She is
part of the Braddock Academy group (consisting of Apex, Kid Briton,
Anachronism and Bloodstone) which is joined by Death Locket despite
death threats from Kid Briton and Nara. Death Locket started bonding
with Apex as she introduces her to the rest of the Braddock Academy.
There is discord in the Braddock Academy's ranks as Anachronism and Kid
Briton get into an argument. An earthquake then separates Bloodstone and
Anachronism from Apex, Nara, Kid Briton, and Death Locket. Death Locket
goes dormant as her cybernetics take over and she blasts Nara off a
cliff and into the ocean. Kid Briton is enraged by this and tries to
kill her until Apex orders him not to, revealing that she knew about his
affair with Nara back at the Braddock Academy and that "we're here now
and I'm done sharing."  Nara, Anachronism, and Bloodstone manage to
survive falling into the chasm and come to the conclusion that Apex is
manipulating Death Locket and Kid Briton to her own ends. The trio is
then teleported by Arcade to the supply cache at Quadrant 2 just as
Apex, Death Locket, and Kid Briton arrive. Nara and Apex start arguing
and Apex confirms that she was the one who ordered Death Locket to
attack Nara. Kid Briton tries to intervene as Nara continues calling him
a "weak puppet." An irate Kid Briton attempts to kill Nara for insulting
him only to be beheaded by Anachronism.

After being injured by Apex, Nico sacrifices herself by staying behind
in order to get the other survivors to safety. The remaining teenage
heroes catch up to Reptil and Hazmat and are invited to have shark
steaks with them. Cullen Bloodstone confronts Reptil about their camping
out on the beach while a war's going off elsewhere. Cammi interjects to
agree with Cullen Bloodstone before saying she's heading out to either
find Nico or avenge her. Reptil heads back to shake Hazmat out of her
funk. Everyone agrees to go back out into Murderworld.

When Cullen Bloodstone's ring is knocked into the ocean, Nara dives into
the ocean to find it. Nara recalls when her parents were part of Namor's
Royal Guards although they were actually agents of Attuma. After her
parents were discovered and killed, Namor tells Nara to trust only
herself. Upon going to the surface world, Nara is enrolled at the
Braddock Academy. Nara is killed when trying to stop a rampaging Cullen
(in his Glaratrox form). After Cullen is subdued and returned to human
form, Nara dies in Anachronism's arms.


Powers and abilities

Like all Atlanteans, Nara is amphibious. She wears a special helmet to
breathe on land.

