NETWORK is the name of three unrelated fictional characters in the
 universe. One is a teleporting villain, the others are
both superheroines with the power to communicate with and/or manipulate
machines.


Network (Hellbent)

A teleporting member of the group of Moon Knight foes known as the
Hellbent.


Network (Sarah Vale)

NETWORK (SARAH VALE) is a fictional character, a mutant who appears
in the  series New X-Men: Academy X as a student at the
Xavier Institute for Higher Learning. She is the sister of fellow
student Preview.

Fictional character biography

Not much is known about the mutant known as Network. She is voted most
likely to be a millionaire after graduation. She is one of the many
mutants who lose their powers on M-Day, and she is killed on the bus of
depowered former Xavier Institute students that is destroyed by agents
of William Stryker.

Powers and abilities

Before she was depowered, Sarah possessed technopathy/cyberpathy: she
could interact with technology at an intimate level, making them follow
her commands such as overriding security, starting up computers and
manipulating programming. The extent of her powers was unrevealed.
{{-}}


Network (Valerie Martin)

NETWORK (VALERIE MARTIN) is a fictional superheroine from the 
Comics universe. She first appeared in Civil War: Front Line._ and was
created by Paul Jenkins and Ramon Bachs

Fictional character biography

During the Civil War event, a third character using the name Network was
among the anti-Registration Act faction of heroes, and became involved
with a group of like-minded heroes. She tried to use her powers to
locate Captain America and his Secret Avengers to join them, but didn't
have enough time as she and the other members of the gang were
apprehended by S.H.I.E.L.D.

Network has been identified as one of the 142 registered superheroes who
are part of the 50-State Initiative.  {{-}}


Other characters

-   Wayne Tucker of the New Universe was referred to by the code-name
    "Network" in a file in Psi-Force Annual #1, but never adopted the
    name for himself.


Other versions

Ultimate Network

-   In the Ultimate  reality, a version of Network appears in
    the series Ultimate Comics: X-Men. This version is named SETH VALE
    and is a former mutant prisoner of Camp: Angel, and joined the
    resistance led by Kitty Pryde. 


Other media

Television

-   The Sarah Vale version of Network appears in the Wolverine and the
    X-Men episode "X-Calibre" voiced by Grey DeLisle. She is shown
    on a ship to Genosha which is raided by Spiral and the Reavers. She
    helps in keeping the ship from sinking by communicating with
    the ship.

