NIGHTMASK is a name and identity used by several fictional characters
who appear in comic books published by . The first
character to bear the name, KEITH REMSEN, was created by writer Archie
Goodwin, and first appeared in Nightmask #1 (November 1986), a series
which was published under 's New Universe imprint. Subsequents
character bearing the name were introduced in the 2006 series
newuniversal, and as part of 's 2012 rebranding,  NOW!


Publication history

The original Nightmask, KEITH REMSEN, was created by Archie Goodwin
and first appeared in Nightmask #1 (Nov 1986), a series which was
published under 's New Universe imprint. Remsen is a paranormal,
one of the people affected by the "White Event", and has the ability to
manifest himself in other people's dreams. Issue #1 was penciled by Tony
Salmons, as lobbied for by editor Eliot R. Brown, who later explained,
"I thought Tony was the quentisential dreamscape person because he is
the last, best, natural delineator of a Ditko-esque world, aside from
Steve himself." Goodwin was the initial writer on the series, but
left after issue #4. As a consequence, the 'Gnome' storyline was
abandoned and subsequently ignored until long after the series'
cancelation, finally being resolved in Untold Tales of the New
Universe: Nightmask (published in 2006). Like most of the New Universe
lineup of 1986-87, Nightmask was unable to secure a stable creative
team; one out of every three issues was a fill-in. The series was
cancelled after 12 issues, although Remsen continued to feature as a
significant New Universe character, with a supporting role (and
occasional back-up stories) in other titles.

In 2006, Warren Ellis and Salvador Larroca introduced a different
version of the Nightmask character when they revived the New Universe
concepts in a new series, newuniversal. IZANAMI RANDALL, who first
appears in newuniversal #1 (Feb 2007), is a young Japanese-American
woman living in San Francisco. After the White Event, Izanami discovers
that she has been appointed as the Nightmask and has gained the power to
manipulate the "superflow", a "transuniversal space" through which
dreams, ideas and telepathy interact with the physical world.


Fictional character biography

Keith Remsen

Keith Remsen was an eighteen-year-old whose parents sent him to study
with Doctor Horst Kleinmann, an expert on dreams. Kleinmann had
perfected a way of entering dreams cybernetically, and was worried that
Remsen's parents were trying to steal his research. Kleinmann planted a
bomb which killed Remsen's parents, paralyzed his little sister Theodora
("Teddy"), and left Keith himself in a coma, where he remained until he
was awakened by the White Event and his sister calling to him.

When he awoke, he gradually discovered that he had the power to enter
people's dreams telepathically, which he used to assist in
psychotherapy. His sister Teddy was able to communicate with him while
he was in the dream state and served as his anchor to reality. He also
fought Kleinmann in the dreamscape.

After the Black Event, in which the city of Pittsburgh was destroyed,
Teddy was left in a coma, and Remsen became one of the first
paranormally gifted people drafted into the military. His training and
abilities earned him a commission and he was assigned to use his
abilities to scan paranormal draftees for signs of mental aberration.
Without his sister to act as his anchor, his dream self became more and
more unhinged until he felt he could no longer tell the sane from the
insane. This led him to approve Harlan Mook, a candidate with a
dangerously unstable personality. Mook had a mental breakdown and
attempted to assassinate the President of the United States (thwarted
only because the unnamed President had developed paranormal regenerative
abilities himself).

Remsen entered Teddy's dreams in order to release her from her coma.
Though initially his Nightmask persona tormented Teddy in the same way
it had all the dreamers he treated since the Black Event, Keith's love
for his sister overcame the Nightmask persona, freeing Teddy from her
coma and restoring the stability of his powers. Remsen stalked Mook
in his dreams, baiting Mook to seek him out personally. Remsen killed
Mook with a single gunshot.


Other versions

Exiles

An alternate version of Keith Remsen attempts to defeat the mutant
Proteus within his dreams. The attempt fails and Proteus strikes back -
Remsen appears to suffer a heart attack, it is unclear whether or not he
survived.

newuniversal

The re-imagined New Universe called newuniversal presents two different
versions of Nightmask:

-   IZANAMI RANDALL is as a Japanese-American girl living in San
    Francisco, who gains the Nightmask glyph during the 2006 White
    Event. Izanami is pulled from the world into a transdimensional
    space called the superflow by an alien communication station just
    after receiving the glyph. The station informs her that she is
    one of the heralds of the paradigm shift which is in progress,
    sparked by the White Event; specifically, she is this
    age's Nightmask. It is the purpose of the Nightmask to help smooth
    the transition period of the paradigm shift due to the inevitable
    initial chaotic effects.
-   TRULL is the first Nighmask of the newuniversal imprint, and is
    introduced in the newuniversal: conqueror one-shot, set in the
    year 2,689 BCE (some years after the first failed White Event).
    Trull helped to found Latvian city of Zardath ruled by Starr the
    Slayer, bearer of the Starbrand. It is revealed that Trull, who
    might have once been good, is a wholly evil man who plots Starr’s
    death and desires to become king. Trull hunts down other superhumans
    and drains them of their minds and powers, a process that causes
    them to be monstrously mutated. The character Trull is named
    after the wizard who appeared as an enemy of the original Starr the
    Slayer, in 's Chamber of Darkness series.

Earth-616

A new Nightmask appears on Earth-616 during the  NOW! relaunch.
This Nightmask is a dark-skinned, artificial human created by Ex Nihilo
on the terraformed surface of the planet Mars. After a fierce battle
with the Avengers, Nightmask is taken to Earth and given residence in
Avengers Tower.

Nightmask reveals his true name upon Tamara Devoux (the current Captain
Universe) deciphering its language, and reveals that the universe is
dying, and that the White Event is coming. Afterwards, some strange
lightning hits Earth. Nightmask accompanies Captain Universe and the
Avengers to the ruins of a college where they encounter a college
student that was transformed into Star Brand. Nightmask and Star
Brand head to Mars to confront Ex Nihilo. The Avengers fight against
Nightmask and Star Brand which results in Nightmask and Star Brand
destroying the living consciousness of Earth. Iron Man imprisons them in
the Sol's Hammer weapon.

Alongside Ex Nihilo, Abyss, and Star Brand, Nightmask joins the
Avengers.


Creators

Writers

-   Archie Goodwin - Nightmask #1-2, 4, 8 (November 1986-December
    1986, February 1987, June 1987)
-   Cary Bates - Nightmask #3, 5 (January 1987, March 1987)
-   Dann Thomas - Nightmask #6-7, 10-12 (April 1987-May 1987, August
    1987-October 1987)
-   Roy Thomas - Nightmask #6-7, 10-12 (April 1987-May 1987, August
    1987-October 1987)
-   Sandy Plunkett - Nightmask #9 (July 1987)
-   David Wohl - "The Real Me" in Justice #25 (November 1988) [back-up
    story]
-   Mark Gruenwald - "Night of the Mask" in D.P. 7 #25 (November 1988)
    [back-up story]
-   Gregory Wright - "Madman" in The Star Brand #16 (November 1988)
    [back-up story]
-   Fabian Nicieza - "Teddy Bare!" in The Star Brand #17
    (January 1989) [back-up story]

Art

-   Tony Salmons - Nightmask #1 (November 1986)
-   Ernie Colón - Nightmask #2 (December 1986)
-   Alex Saviuk - Nightmask #3 (January 1987)
-   Ron Wagner - Nightmask #4 (February 1987)
-   Arvell Jones - Nightmask #5 (March 1987)
-   Javier Saltares - Nightmask #6 (April 1987); "Night of the Mask"
    in D.P. 7 #25 (November 1988) [back-up story]
-   Michael Bair - Nightmask #7 (May 1987)
-   Keith Giffen - Nightmask #8 (June 1987)
-   Mark Bagley - Nightmask #9 (July 1987)
-   Mark Badger - Nightmask #10, 12 (August 1987, October 1987)
-   Kyle Baker - Nightmask #11 (September 1987)
-   Tom Morgan - "The Real Me" in Justice #25 (November 1988) [back-up
    story]
-   Kieron Dwyer - "Madman" in The Star Brand #16 (November 1988)
    [back-up story]
-   Ron Lim - "Teddy Bare!" in The Star Brand #17 (January 1989)
    [back-up story]


Notes

