NIGHTCRAWLER (KURT WAGNER) is a fictional superhero appearing in
American comic books published by , commonly in association
with the X-Men. Created by writer Len Wein and artist Dave Cockrum, he
debuted in the comic book Giant-Size X-Men #1 (May 1975).

Nightcrawler is a member of a fictional sub-species of humanity known as
mutants, who are born with superhuman abilities. Nightcrawler possesses
superhuman agility, the ability to teleport, and adhesive hands and
feet. His physical mutations include indigo-colored skin which allows
him to become nearly invisible in shadows, two-toed feet and
three-fingered hands, yellow eyes, pointed ears and a prehensile tail.
In Nightcrawler's earlier comic book appearances he is depicted as being
a happy-go-lucky practical joker and teaser, and a fan of swashbuckling
fiction. Nightcrawler is a Catholic, and while this is not emphasized as
much in his earlier comic book appearances, in later depictions
Nightcrawler is more vocal about his faith.

Since his inception, Nightcrawler has had a regular presence in
-related comic books and video games. He has been featured in a
small number of the 1990s X-Men animated series episodes and was a
regular on its successors, X-Men: Evolution and Wolverine and the
X-Men. In 2003, he was portrayed by Alan Cumming in the film X2, and
actor Kodi Smit-McPhee will portray a younger version of Nightcrawler in
the upcoming 2016 film, X-Men: Apocalypse.

Nightcrawler is originally stated to be from a small village called
Witzeldorf in the German state of Bavaria. In the X-Men animated
series, it is said to be Neuherzl, and in the film X2, he makes
repeated references to his time in the Munich circus, though it is never
explicitly specified from where he originated.


Publication history

Dave Cockrum originally created Nightcrawler while he was in the United
States Navy, stationed at Guam. He recounted: "I sat up one night in the
middle of a typhoon because it was too noisy to sleep, so I stayed up
and thought up this character. Originally, Nightcrawler was a demon from
Hell who had flubbed a mission, and rather than go back and face
punishment, he decided to stay up here in the human world. He was
supposed to be the sidekick of another superhero character that I had
created named The Intruder." At this point Nightcrawler wore trunks
instead of a full costume, but otherwise looked identical to his final
version.

Cockrum submitted the character to be part of a group of characters
called The Outsiders (not to be confused with the later team The
Outsiders), set in the universe of ' Legion of Super-Heroes
series. As Nightcrawler had been rejected by , when Cockrum
started work on the new X-Men in 1975, he brought the character's
costume design (and overall unusual look) over to . Because
editor Roy Thomas wanted the new X-Men to be a multinational group, it
was decided to make Nightcrawler German.

Although an X-Men character for years, Nightcrawler did not get his own
comic book title (written and drawn by Cockrum) until November 1985. In
the four-issue limited series Nightcrawler, along with Lockheed,
accidentally travel to several alternate dimensions, meeting strange
beings such as the Bamfs. After various adventures, Nightcrawler and
Lockheed manage to get home safely.

A second four-issue limited series was published in November 2002.
Written by Chris Kipiniak and penciled by Matthew Dow Smith, it focuses
upon Nightcrawler's decision to become a priest and his attempts to
fight a group of slave traders.

In September 2004, the first Nightcrawler ongoing title was published
by , written by Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa with covers and pencils by
Darick Robertson. The series was canceled with issue twelve.

In 2014, a new Nightcrawler ongoing title commenced, written by Chris
Claremont.


Fictional character biography

Origin

Kurt Wagner was born with certain unusual physical characteristics, but
his power of self-teleportation did not emerge until puberty. Margali
Szardos, a sorceress and Gypsy queen, allegedly found Kurt an hour after
his birth, in a small roadside shelter in the Black Forest with his
father lying dead on the road outside. However, this claim was later
called into question, and it was subsequently proven that Kurt's mother
is Mystique, also known as Raven Darkholme, and his father is the
demonic warlord Azazel. Mystique revealed that she threw him into a
well after a large mob found out about Nightcrawler's existence, and
Azazel admitted that he secretly saved his son from the fall, giving him
to his lover and crony, Margali Szardos, to raise him. Margali took the
baby to the small Bavarian circus where she worked as a fortuneteller,
as a cover for her activities as a sorceress. Wagner was never legally
adopted by anyone, but was raised by all the members of the circus, who
had no prejudices against mutants. Margali acted as Kurt's unofficial
foster mother.

Kurt grew up happily in the circus, and his two closest friends were
Margali's natural children, Stefan and Jimaine. Long before his
teleportation power emerged, Wagner had tremendous natural agility, and
by his adolescence he had become the circus' star acrobat and aerial
artist. Circus audiences assumed that he was a normal-looking human
wearing a devil-like costume.

Years later, the Texas millionaire Arnos Jardine, who ran a large circus
based in Florida, heard of the circus for which Wagner worked and bought
it. Jardine intended to move its best acts into his American circus;
however, he demanded that Wagner be placed in the circus' freak show.
Jardine drugged him to prevent escape but a young mutant child with the
ability to sense other mutants helped Kurt escape. Appalled, Wagner left
and made his way toward Winzeldorf, Germany, where his foster brother
Stefan was. He discovered that Stefan had gone mad and brutally slew
several children. When they were younger, Stefan made Kurt promise to
kill him if he ever took an innocent life. Two nights after leaving the
circus, Wagner found Stefan and fought him, hoping to stop his rampage.
In the course of the struggle, Stefan was killed.

The villagers of Winzeldorf, who assumed from Kurt's appearance that he
was the one who killed the children, attacked. They were about to kill
him when they were all psychically paralyzed by Professor Charles
Xavier, who came to recruit Wagner into the X-Men. Before they left for
America, he and Xavier went to the Bavarian circus to explain to Margali
about Stefan's death, but Margali was not there. Known as Nightcrawler,
Wagner becomes a member of the X-Men. Jimaine held Wagner
responsible for murdering Stefan, and created a facsimile of the hell
from Dante's Inferno in which to punish him years later. Through the
use of Doctor Strange's all-seeing Eye of Agamotto, she learned the
truth, and she and Wagner were reconciled. Wagner was happily reunited
with his foster sister Jimaine, who had moved to the United States and
changed her name to Amanda Sefton, later becoming Kurt's girlfriend.

Some time later, Nightcrawler fought Shagreen the Sorcerer, and became
lost in various dimensions, including the manifestation of a fairy tale
his teammate Kitty Pryde had once told to Illyana Rasputin. It was
there that Nightcrawler first encountered the Bamfs, strange creatures
that resembled miniature versions of himself and who would occasionally
appear during some of his future adventures.

Shortly after this, and once he had rejoined his teammates, a tactic
designed to disable the super-Sentinel Nimrod backfired and Kurt found
himself at the mercies of an angry mob without his teleportation
ability. He was rescued by Shadowcat, Colossus, and Magik but feared he
had lost his ability for good. His power returned but left him
drained and vulnerable when he used it, again leading to self-doubt
about his value to the team. During the Marauders' assault on the
Morlock tunnels, this exhaustion left him vulnerable to an attack from
Riptide which put him in a coma.

Excalibur

While he recovers from these injuries, his fellow X-Men are apparently
killed on a mission in Dallas. Not long after, Nightcrawler and
teammates Shadowcat and Rachel Summers leave to join Captain Britain in
an adventure in the UK. They fought Gatecrasher's group of
inter-dimensional mercenaries known as the Technet. The heroes work
together so well, they decide to form a group they name Excalibur.
Captain Britain originally assumes leadership of the group, but
Nightcrawler gradually takes the responsibility. While Captain Britain
and Meggan's relationship goes through a rocky time Nightcrawler becomes
interested in Meggan, a feeling that is reciprocated but never
consummated. During his time with Excalibur, he
takes charge of the Technet, renaming them his 'N-Men', and he
becomes romantically involved with his teammate Cerise before she leaves
to stand trial for the Shi'ar. Later, his former girlfriend, Amanda
Sefton, joins the team and the two continue their previous
relationship. She leaves the team to take control of Limbo, a task
that keeps her away from Earth, but the two remain close friends.
Fearing it would be stolen from her, Amanda magically hides the
Soulsword inside Nightcrawler's body.

Returning to the X-Men

[Nightcrawler back amongst the X-Men on the cover of X-Men vol. 2 #80
drawn by Carlos Pacheco.] For a time, Kitty Pryde and Nightcrawler
express some resentment over the X-Men's failing to contact them after
their supposed deaths. Following the wedding of Captain Britain and
Meggan, Excalibur disbands and Nightcrawler returns to the X-Men with
Shadowcat and Colossus. Yet, as soon as they return, they face a
group of impostors following Cerebro, in the guise of Professor X.

Wanting to devote more time to priesthood, Nightcrawler shares team
leadership with Archangel. However, his work as a priest is retconned to
be an illusion; he had, in fact, never attained priesthood. He has
also met his half-brothers Nils Styger, alias Abyss, and Kiwi Black.
With them, Nightcrawler defeated his father Azazel, who had tried to use
him as a pawn in escaping his prison.

Later, Nightcrawler served as the new leader of the Uncanny X-Men team
alongside Wolverine, Bishop, Psylocke, Cannonball, and  Girl. In
the last mission against the Foursaken, Nightcrawler took  Girl,
Psylocke, Bishop, and Cannonball to Central Park. He later helped Storm
liberate Africa from her uncle's control.

Afterwards, Professor X recruited him, along with Darwin, Havok, 
Girl, Warpath, and Polaris, to participate in a space mission to stop
Vulcan from laying waste to the Shi'ar empire. During the battle
with Vulcan, Nightcrawler helps get the injured Professor X and Darwin
back to their spaceship. While there, trying to save Professor X,
Lilandra sent the ship on its way back to Earth, leaving half the team
behind.

Kurt is still part of Professor X's team, helping Charles find Magneto
before the government does, while the rest of the team search for the
Morlocks.

"House of M"

In the 2005 "House of M" storyline, Nightcrawler is part of Wolverine's
S.H.I.E.L.D team and helps Mystique track him down. After his memory
returns he assists in the final confrontation against Magneto. Upon
their return to the true reality, he rapidly teleported around the
mansion to find Wolverine on Cyclops' orders, as both men worried that
Wolverine would have lost his powers and therefore be vulnerable to the
metal poisoning caused by his adamantium skeleton.

"Messiah Complex"

When the first mutant since M-Day appears, Cyclops sends Nightcrawler,
Wolverine, Angel, Storm, and Colossus to find former Acolytes for
information on the Marauders. It was predicted by Blindfold that Kurt
would be seriously injured in the upcoming events and indeed this came
true when he was shot by the Marauder, Scalphunter. Kurt seems to have
nearly fully recovered from his injuries since he, along with Beast, the
entire New X-Men team are teleported to Muir Island by Pixie. He
takes part in the final battle.

Divided We Stand

Still recovering from his injuries, Kurt is traveling through Europe
along with Wolverine and Colossus. Kurt and Wolverine are currently
involved in a "war of pranks" as Peter calls it. One of the many pranks
involved Logan hacking into Kurt's image inducer to make him look like
Angelina Jolie, which results in a picture of Angelina and Peter
appearing in assorted tabloid newspapers. The three of them travel
to Russia where they visit the cemetery where Peter's family is buried.
Afterwards they go to a local bar, where they discuss the recent loss of
Kitty Pryde and the destruction of the X-Men. A fight occurs in the bar,
during which their cover is blown. Soon after, the three of them are
captured by the Russian government which demands to know why all their
mutants were depowered and why Colossus, Wolverine, and Nightcrawler
retain their abilities. After a battle with Omega Red, the three
heroes return to the US and rejoin the team now living in San
Francisco.

Manifest Destiny

Kurt, along with Wolverine and Karma ambush the Hellfire Cult after a
series of mutant related hate-crimes happen around San Francisco. He
also has taken it upon himself to build a new chapel at Graymalkin
Industries, the X-Men's new home and base of operations.

During a training session in the Danger Room, he reveals he is trying to
keep himself distracted because whenever he has time to think, he can't
help but think of Kitty, how the X-Men don't need him, and that Pixie is
a better teleporter than he is. After battling (unsuccessfully) several
simulated villains, he reprograms the Danger Room to show Kitty. He
confesses he was sorry he wasn't there for her and hugs the simulation
and cries. The simulation of Kitty replies that she misses Kurt too.

Nightcrawler briefly believes that he no longer has a role with the
X-Men, especially due to Pixie's abilities in teleporting. A trip back
to Germany renews his conviction through an encounter with a boy cursed
by gypsies into demonic form, a brush with Mephisto, and a romantic
fling before he returns to San Francisco to aid the X-Men against a foe
they struggled with, lacking his help.

"Secret Invasion"

In the 2008 storyline "Secret Invasion", Nightcrawler fights alongside
the X-Men when the Skrulls invade San Francisco. He comes across a
Skrull bible and, after studying it, he gives it to Beast who figures
out how to deal with the Skrulls.

X-Infernus

In the 2008 miniseries X-Infernus, Pixie summons her Souldagger and
stabs Kurt in the chest, knocking him out. When Pixie removes her
Souldagger, Magik's Soulsword emerges from his chest.

Magik teleports away after taking out Pixie, Mercury, Rockslide, and
Beast. Kurt wakes up and stops Pixie from going after her and Pixie
breaks down and apologizes for stabbing him. Later the X-Men gather and
Kurt is put in charge of a team of X-Men to go help save Magik.

Upon entering Limbo, Kurt, Mercury, Colossus, Rockslide, Pixie, and
Wolverine fight their way through many demons. Pixie, Mercury, and
Rockslide are horrified at how brutal the older X-Men are towards the
demons. An octopus type creature attacks Kurt until Pixie jumps in and
kills it with her Souldagger.

Hearing the screams from the castle, Kurt teleports the X-Men into the
throne room. Once there, Witchfire turns Colossus and Wolverine against
Mercury and Rockslide. Kurt notices Illyana chained to a pillar and she
asks him to stab her with Pixie's Souldagger, as it's the only way and
he is the only one to do it because he is attuned to magic.He apologizes
and he stabs her; at that moment Colossus punches Kurt, and Witchfire
finishes making her fifth and final Bloodstone from the now demonic
Pixie.

The fact however that Colossus and Wolverine have not killed him, makes
Kurt realize they are not fully under her control. Using Pixie's Dagger,
Kurt then pulls Illyana's Soulsword from her, and uses it to free
Wolverine and Colossus of Witchfire's control. Unfortunately, the demon
manages to use the Bloodstones to summon the Elder Gods. Through their
combined efforts, the X-Men and Magik managed to banish both Witchfire
and the Elder Gods, but not without losing four of the five Bloodstones.
Furious at losing another part of her soul, Pixie flees. Being told by
Illyana to let her go, Kurt consoles Magik about the theology of a soul,
before she teleports them back to Earth. Kurt, along with Colossus,
Cyclops, and the former New Mutants team, convinces her to stay with
them and join the X-Men.

Necrosha

After mutants rise from the dead and attack the island Utopia as part of
the Necrosha storyline, Cyclops sends Nightcrawler to lead a team of
X-Men consisting of Rogue, Trance, Magneto, Husk, Psylocke, Colossus,
and Blindfold to investigate Muir Island. It is revealed that Proteus
has been resurrected and has taken possession of Blindfold (who had the
vision of going to Muir Island in the first place).

"Second Coming" and death

In the 2010 "X-Men: Second Coming" storyline, the X-Men travel to
Westchester when Cable and Hope are detected there. Nightcrawler's
discovery of the lethal methods used by X-Force leads to an argument
between him and Cyclops. While teleporting during a battle with Bastion,
Bastion extends his arm into the space in which Nightcrawler will
materialize. Nightcrawler rematerializes around Bastion's arm, fusing
with it, and is mortally wounded, though he manages to teleport Hope to
Utopia, telling her before expiring that he believes in her.

Afterlife

Despite his death, Nightcrawler continues to aid his friends. When
Wolverine is possessed by a demon called the Hellverine, Nightcrawler
enters his friend's mind to help him drive out the invader, although the
other X-Men who entered Logan's mind to help him assume that
Nightcrawler was just a manifestation of Wolverine's mind rather than
the real one.

Resurrection

Nightcrawler spends his sojourn in Heaven alongside Professor X, but
despite enjoying paradise, Nightcrawler continues to feel as though he
had unfinished business, remaining on the periphery rather than actually
joining the heavenly choir. When Azazel mounts an attack on Heaven using
his connection to Kurt as a door, Nightcrawler instructs a few Bamfs to
create a portal to Heaven inside the Jean Grey School of Higher
Learning, allowing him to summon the X-Men to aid him in his fight.
Having gathered his friends, Kurt uses the Bamfs and his connection to
Azazel to restore himself to life back on Earth, thus preventing Azazel
from attacking Heaven again by tying them both together, although this
results in Kurt sacrificing his own soul to ensure that Azazel will not
be able to return to Heaven. His 'Welcome Back' party is
subsequently attended by all the X-Men, including Cyclops' branch of the
team. Despite the tensions between them, Nightcrawler states that he
wants all of his family to be present. Nightcrawler later leaves the
party to confront Mystique when she is attempting to find and free
Azazel, in which she succeeds.

After some readjustment, Nightcrawler settles in at the Jean Grey School
for Higher Learning, and reunites with Amanda. But their moment together
is interrupted by the robotic villain Trimega, who has come for Amanda.
After Nightcrawler subdues him, he and Amanda seek out their mother
Margali. Despite Amanda's misgivings to get involved with her mother
again, Nightcrawler chooses to grant her sanctuary in the school; but
then an army of Trimegas commenced an attack on the school. During the
course of the battle, it turns out that Margali is actually Trimega's
creator and has orchestrated the attack in order to gain knowledge of
how to cross into the Afterlife. Armed with that knowledge, Margali
opens a portal, whose existence would endanger reality itself. In order
to stop her scheme, Nightcrawler and Amanda attempt to pass the gate,
but Nightcrawler's voluntary exile from Heaven bars him from entry,
stranding Amanda alone in the Void.

At the Jean Grey School

Upon Rachel Grey's prompting, Nightcrawler accepts a teaching position
at the Jean Grey School, where he forms a bond with the pupil Scorpion
Boy. Nightcrawler is tasked by Storm to retrieve a newly detected mutant
named Ziggy Karst, a high-level intellect and technomorpher working at a
weapons design facility. In the process, he and Scorpion Boy engage the
Crimson Pirates, who are also after Ziggy on behalf of Tullamore Voge,
and rescue the kidnapped girl, who subsequently joins the Jean Grey
School. Soon afterwards, Nightcrawler and Bloody Bess are forced to
fight against their fellow Crimson Pirates and X-Men, who are all
mind-controlled by the resurrected Shadow King. The fight ends with
the Pirates kidnapping Ziggy and Scorpion Boy and fatally stabbing
Nightcrawler; but on his way to the afterlife he is intercepted by
Amanda, Wolverine and the Phoenix, who encourage him to return, and
dragged back to the land of the living by Bess' astral self.
Together with Bess and the Bamfs, he travels to Voge's interdimensional
child slave market and rescues Ziggy and Scorpion Boy, battling Voge's
henchmen and his old enemies, the Warwolves. In the end, they defeat
Voge, break up his slavery racket, and return the enslaved children,
taking those orphaned by the slavers into the school.


Powers and abilities

Kurt Wagner is a mutant whose primary mutant power is the ability to
teleport himself, his clothing, and a certain amount of additional mass
from one point to another virtually instantaneously. He does this by
means of displacing himself through an alternate dimension briefly and
reappearing in a desired, pre-selected location. He has been shown to be
able to teleport distances of up to two miles (3 km) under optimal
conditions, although this is usually his extreme limit, and he can
become severely fatigued if he tries to teleport that distance. He has
exceeded this limit on multiple occasions. In one case, he teleports
somewhere over . Via coordinates received telepathically from
Professor Xavier, Nightcrawler has teleported an unknown (but presumably
large) distance. In a final, dying effort to rescue the mutant
messiah Hope, he manages to teleport them both from Las Vegas, Nevada to
the mutant safehold Utopia, just off the coast of San Francisco, a
distance of approximately . Nightcrawler's teleportation ability is also
affected by direction — north-south along Earth's "magnetic lines of
force" is easier than east-west against them.

He possesses a limited unconscious extrasensory "spatial awareness"
ability which prevents him from teleporting into solid objects within
his immediate vicinity, but this ability diminishes the greater the
distance he teleports. Because teleporting into other solid matter would
cause severe injury or death, he will only teleport to an area he is
familiar with or that he can clearly see at the time or has seen in the
past. His power automatically displaces liquids and gases when he
arrives.

The process of teleportation places a strain on his endurance and that
of any passengers; carrying mass other than his body and clothing when
teleporting adds additional strain through his body. Through practice he
has been able to teleport with a passenger over a lengthy distance
without exhausting himself. Extensive training has raised his tolerance
for teleportation, but most of his passengers lack this tolerance.
Therefore, one of his tactics is to grab opponents and make several
quick teleportations with them. They usually become weakened or even
pass out from the strain.

After Nightcrawler teleports, he leaves behind smoke and a faint scent
of burning brimstone; this is a small portion of the atmosphere of the
dimension he travels through when he teleports. His teleportation power
is due to a biophysical/biochemical reaction he consciously triggers
within himself. A loud "bamf" noise is always present whenever he
teleports (being the sound of air rushing to fill the space he was just
occupying). His teleporting also causes a slight change in the
atmosphere before he arrives, although only superhumans with heightened
senses such as Daredevil can detect it.

In addition to his primary power of teleportation, Nightcrawler's
physiology is unique in several different ways. His agility far
surpasses that of an Olympic-level gymnast, and his bone structure
allows him great flexibility. His spine is more flexible than an
ordinary human, enabling him to remain in a crouched position for a long
time and perform contortionist-type feats without causing any damage to
his spine. Nightcrawler's balance and bodily coordination are all
enhanced to superhuman levels. He has the ability to cling to surfaces
through microscopic suction cups located on the pads of his hands and
feet. He also possesses superhuman dexterity, being able to manipulate
items and fence with either hand, both feet, and his tail.

He has the ability to blend into shadows, both as a result of his indigo
fur, and the dimensional portal which always surrounds his body and
absorbs photons. At one point shortly after his initial
introduction, it was suggested that he could actually travel through
shadows (in much the same way Psylocke did after exposure to the Crimson
Dawn) and this was shown in Bizarre Adventures, but never really
touched upon after that. In the story, Vanisher removes some of the
Darkforce that formed his costume and threw it at Kurt, who disappeared.
He then reappeared from within the Darkforce on the ground, saying that
it was like "a pool of shadow" and that he "fell right through it".

Nightcrawler has a prehensile tail, allowing him to grab onto objects
with relative ease. His tail is strong enough to not only support his
body weight, but also lift an adult man completely off the ground at the
same time, and is deft enough to fight with while holding a sword or
blunt object. Nightcrawler's eyes (which are constantly glowing) grant
him a marked degree of heightened night vision.

Aside from the abilities granted by his mutation, Nightcrawler is a
superb fencer and a very skilled hand-to-hand combatant, to the point of
being able to stalemate super-beings as powerful as Captain Britain. He
has also served as the team's pilot and medic when more qualified X-Men
were not around to do so. He and Wolverine were also the mechanics of
the X-Men's Blackbird jet for a long time. He is also recognized by
other  characters as the leading authority on teleportation, with
Spider-Man and Daredevil contacting him for information and advice
following their first encounter with Francis Klum. Nightcrawler deduced
from analysis of photographs of a crime scene that a man had been killed
by someone else teleporting inside the victim, despite having never
witnessed such a thing before.

For a long period, Kurt's body housed the Soulsword. Magik states that
Kurt is attuned to magic and thus able to wield her Soulsword and
Pixie's Souldagger.

As an aftereffect of his death and resurrection, Nightcrawler has
developed a heightened resistance against psychic domination which
helped him resist the Shadow King's telepathic powers, even after the
latter had possessed such strong minds as Rachel Grey and Psylocke
moments before.


Family relations

Veteran X-Men writer Chris Claremont had intended for the mutant
terrorist Mystique and her lover Destiny to have been Nightcrawler's
biological parents. Mystique, being a shapeshifter, would have taken
the form of a man and impregnated Destiny. However,  felt the idea
to be too controversial and an alternative origin was developed.

After hinting for many years that Mystique was indeed Nightcrawler's
biological mother, it was confirmed by writer Scott Lobdell in X-Men
Unlimited #4. In 2003, it was revealed that although Mystique was
married to a wealthy German, Herr Wagner, Nightcrawler's father was
Azazel, a member of a race of demonic-looking mutants known as the
Neyaphem which date back to Biblical times that were banished to another
dimension by a race of angelic mutants. The storyline was furthered
by the revelation that fellow X-Man Archangel's healing blood did not
heal Nightcrawler, and in fact caused him great pain.

Nightcrawler's siblings include his adoptive sister Rogue and
half-brother Graydon Creed by Mystique; and Abyss and Kiwi Black from
Azazel.

It is also revealed that in a parallel universe, an alternate
Nightcrawler fathered a daughter with an alternate Scarlet Witch;
this girl, named Nocturne, is a dimensionally-stranded mutant bearing
traits similar to Nightcrawler himself. Nocturne has since referred to
Nightcrawler as her father. The demeanor of Nightcrawler is very similar
to that of the Nightcrawler from Nocturne’s reality, so the two
developed a close bond that resembles a father-daughter
relationship.


Characteristics

Nightcrawler is a mutant born with fine blue-black fur covering his
body, two fingers with an opposable thumb on each hand and only two
toes, each longer than a normal human being's, on each foot and a third
toe-like projection on his heel, as well as pronounced, fang-like canine
teeth, yellow eyes, pointed ears, and a prehensile pointed tail which
can support his weight.

Among his more ironic character traits, Wagner is an extremely religious
man. A devout Catholic, his demonic appearance obviously makes it very
difficult to attend Mass. Despite this, as mutants in the 
Universe become more accepted, he even managed to almost become a
Catholic priest; unfortunately his studies were interrupted by a
villainous group known as "The Neo".

In contrast, Nightcrawler also has a knack for the spontaneous and
exciting. He sees himself as a swashbuckler, usually comparing himself
to Errol Flynn. He is, despite his looks, always charming and gallant,
and several storylines contain Kurt's love life as a conflict to his
religious nature. His days in the circus make him a gifted performer and
showman. Kurt is also a jokester. He has a great sense of humor for
someone in his situation. He always plays pranks on people; some even
call him "Trickster" because his combined teleporting abilities and
playful disposition enable him to play quite the joke.

Wagner has used a personal holographic device called an image-inducer on
several occasions to produce a holographic image of himself as an
ordinary human (occasionally Errol Flynn himself) so that he might
interact with non-mutants in a normal fashion. After losing a bet with
his friend Wolverine, however, Nightcrawler was made to walk through
town in his normal form for all to see. To his shock, the reaction of
the average person on the street was simply one of startled interest. He
was even able to sneak a kiss from a surprised, but unafraid woman. Kurt
was, eventually, attacked by a carload of anti-mutant bigots, but he
prevented Wolverine from tearing them to shreds, preferring to be
merciful to the ignorant. The entire experience emboldened him, and he
has since largely forsaken the use of this device, using it only when
absolutely necessary.


Reception

Nightcrawler has received positive reception as a comic book character
and as a member of the X-Men. Nightcrawler was ranked as the 133rd
greatest comic book character of all time by Wizard magazine. IGN
also ranked Nightcrawler as the 80th greatest comic book hero of all
time describing Nightcrawler as a mutant with the appearance of a demon
and the heart of a preacher; IGN also states that as the X-Men enter one
of their most uncertain periods, his legacy still looms large. In
2006, IGN also rated Nightcrawler at #7 on their list of Top 25 X-Men
from the past forty years stating that religion is one of the few
commonalities that could bring mutants and humans together and it is
through his faith that Nightcrawler has stayed true to the X-Men for so
long. In 2008,  rated their top ten X-Men of all time.
Nightcrawler ranked #4 on their list stating that far from a character
consumed by doom and gloom, Nightcrawler's chivalry, flair for the
dramatic and sense of humor have made him one of the most likable X-Men
ever, a character you genuinely look forward to seeing leap into
action. In 2013, ComicsAlliance ranked Nightcrawler as #19 on their
list of the "50 Sexiest Male Characters in Comics".


Other versions


In other media

Television

-   Nightcrawler appears in the episode "The X-Men Adventure" of the
    1981 animated series Spider-Man and His Amazing Friends, voiced by
    Stanley Jones.
-   Nightcrawler (voiced by Neil Ross) appears in the 1989 cartoon
    Pryde of the X-Men, the pilot episode of an unproduced X-Men
    cartoon series.
-   Nightcrawler is featured in the episodes "Nightcrawler" and
    "Bloodlines" of the 1992 X-Men animated series, where he is voiced
    by Adrian Hough. He is shown as a monk in a Swiss abbey, persecuted
    by one of his superiors and the townspeople who believe him a demon.
    Nightcrawler also makes brief appearances in the episodes "Repo Man"
    and "One Man's Worth, Part I".
-   Nightcrawler is one of the main characters in the 2000 animated
    series X-Men: Evolution, voiced by Brad Swaile. He is much younger
    in this incarnation, a student at the Xavier Institute who is
    insecure about his appearance. He develops a long-standing romance
    with human Amanda Sefton, though unlike the comics, the two have no
    prior relationship as "siblings". Like the comics, this show reveals
    that Mystique is his birth mother and that Rogue is his
    adopted sister.
-   Nightcrawler is a recurring character in the 2009 animated series
    Wolverine and the X-Men, voiced by Liam O'Brien. He appears in the
    episodes "Hindsight, Part 1", "X-Calibre", "Greetings From Genosha",
    "Hunting Grounds", "Backlash", "Breakdown", "Rover", "Aces &
    Eights", "Shades of Grey", and the three-part series
    finale, "Foresight". At the beginning of the series, he leaves the
    X-Men when they disband, and he is later seen helping mutant
    refugees traveling on pirate ships. He enters into a strong romantic
    relationship with the Scarlet Witch, despite being on opposite
    sides, and eventually rejoins the X-Men.
-   Nightcrawler appears in episode 5 of the Black Panther animated
    series, voiced by Nolan North. He is seen with Cyclops, Storm, and
    Wolverine when they find out that Juggernaut is taking part in the
    invasion of Wakanda.

Film

[Alan Cumming as Nightcrawler in the film X2: X-Men United.]

-   In the 2003 film X2: X-Men United, Nightcrawler is played by Alan
    Cumming. In the film, Nightcrawler is brainwashed with a fluid
    from William Stryker's mutant son Jason, in order to attempt an
    assassination on the President of the United States. He helps the
    X-Men infiltrate Stryker's base on Alkali Lake.
-   According to director Bryan Singer, Nightcrawler was intended to
    appear in X-Men: Days of Future Past, but he felt "that we were
    forcing too many mutants into the story."
-   A younger Nightcrawler will appear in the 2016 film X-Men:
    Apocalypse portrayed by Kodi Smit-McPhee.

Video games

-   Nightcrawler has appeared in a number of video games such as:
    X-Men for the NES, X-Men: Madness in Murderworld, the X-Men
    arcade game, X-Men, X-Men 2: Clone Wars, X-Men: Mutant Academy
    2, and X-Men: Next Dimension. In X-Men: Next Dimension,
    Nightcrawler can teleport toward, behind, or above the opponent,
    following it with any attack he chooses. He also carries a large
    sword he uses to deadly effect. Nightcrawler's incredible acrobatic
    attacks rival the other agile fighters greatly, which include Beast
    and Toad.
-   He is one of the 3 playable characters in X-Men: The Official
    Game, which fills in the gap between the films X2 and X-Men: The
    Last Stand. Nightcrawler is voiced by Alan Cumming, the actor who
    portrayed him in X2. He helps the X-Men recover missing
    Cerebro components from the Alkali Lake facility, works with Storm
    to stop Multiple Man destroying a bridge, and assists the entire
    team in the destruction of Stryker's Sentinels. However, he decides
    to leave the X-Men at the conclusion of the game as he feels that he
    is fundamentally a man of peace. Professor respects his decision and
    assures Kurt that he will always be welcome at the school.
-   Nightcrawler appears as a playable character in X-Men Legends and
    its sequel X-Men Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse, voiced by Dee
    Bradley Baker. Nightcrawler's powers include powerful sword attacks
    and the ability to teleport short distances.
-   Dee Bradley Baker reprises his role of Nightcrawler in :
    Ultimate Alliance. He appears as an NPC across all platforms, and
    as a downloadable playable character for the Xbox 360 version of
    the game. In the game, he and Jean Grey are abducted by the Masters
    of Evil. While Jean is taken to Murderworld, Nightcrawler remains in
    Latveria, and is forced to teleport to Mephisto's Realm when
    subjected to the Mutant Amplifier. He and Jean will eventually be
    taken by Blackheart. After Blackheart is defeated, the player has
    the choice to save either Jean or Nightcrawler, since saving one
    results in the other one being dropped into the Infinity Vortex. If
    Jean is rescued, then Nightcrawler will eventually be revived
    by Mephisto. After he is defeated, he realizes he is only an echo
    and sacrifices himself to defeat Mephisto. At the end of the game,
    it is revealed that if Jean Gray is saved, Mystique will sneak into
    the X-Mansion under cover of night to vent her frustration on
    Professor X where he will die months later and the X-Men will
    disband forever (ironically though, Nightcrawler can be seen at the
    photo of the funeral).
-   Nightcrawler appears in the PlayStation 2, Nintendo DS, and PSP
    versions of Spider-Man: Web of Shadows, voiced by Yuri Lowenthal.
    In the PS2 and PSP versions, he is an assist character who will
    teleport across the screen to defeat enemies. In the DS version, the
    player is able to play alongside Nightcrawler and take advantage of
    his unique powers.
-   Nightcrawler is a playable character in the  Super Hero
    Squad video game, voiced by Liam O'Brien.
-   Nightcrawler has a cameo in Trish and Magneto's endings in
     vs. Capcom 3: Fate of Two Worlds. In the game's rerelease,
    Ultimate  vs. Capcom 3, he appears as an card in Heroes and
    Heralds mode, granting users a teleporting airdash.
-   Nightcrawler appears in X-Men: Destiny, voiced again by Yuri
    Lowenthal.
-   Nightcrawler is a playable character in  Super Hero Squad
    Online.
-   Nightcrawler is a playable character in the Facebook game :
    Avengers Alliance.
-   Nightcrawler is a playable character in  Heroes, voiced
    again by Liam O'Brien.

Toys

There have been numerous Nightcrawler action figures produced, most by
manufacturer Toy Biz, with the most notable being the figure in the
 Legends series.

Music

Nightcrawler is mentioned in the Weezer song "In the Garage", along with
his ally Kitty Pryde.

Books

Nightcrawler appears in the X-Men/Star Trek crossover novel Planet
X. In it, Geordi La Forge analyzes his teleportation ability and finds
that it works by sending Nightcrawler through the same subspace
dimension as warp drive. His ability lets him teleport himself and Data
onto an enemy ship since the Enterprise's transporters cannot work
through shields.

