NICHOLETTE "NIKKI" GOLD is a fictional character appearing in American
comic books published by . The character is usually
depicted as a woman in the Earth-691 timeline of the fictional 
Universe, genetically engineered to live on the planet Mercury. As such,
she has a superhuman ability to withstand heat and ultraviolet
radiation, and can see clearly in very bright light. She is bald,
although she expels body heat through her head in a low-temperature
flame resembling hair in shape. She was the sixth member of the
Guardians of the Galaxy, and is noted for her acrobatic and
sharp-shooting skill.


Publication history

Nikki first appeared in  Presents #4, and was created by Steve
Gerber (who did not call her Nicholette Gold). She was first referred to
in FOOM #12.


Fictional character biography

NICHOLETTE "NIKKI" GOLD was born on the planet Mercury in the 31st
Century. She was rescued from an abandoned spacecraft by the Guardians
of the Galaxy. She joined the Guardians, seeking excitement and
adventure after years of solitude aboard the abandoned spacecraft.
She later joined with Vance Astro in a metaphysical union in a
successful attempt to use the force of human love to destroy the
Topographical Man. The sexual nature of this union embarrassed Vance,
but not Nikki.

Nikki traveled to the present with the other Guardians, and assisted the
Avengers in battle against Korvac. She traveled to the present again,
and battled Hammer and Anvil alongside Spider-Man.

Alongside the Guardians, Nikki later went on a quest to find the lost
shield of Captain America, and battled Taserface. She battled the
Stark alongside the other Guardians. She encountered Firelord. She
battled the super-humanoid team known as Force alongside the
Guardians.

During her time on the team, Nikki had a romantic relationship with
Charlie-27, though they later amicably separated. She became attracted
to later Guardian recruits Firelord and Talon though both simply wished
to remain friends.


Powers and abilities

Nikki is a member of a genetically engineered offshoot of humanity whose
traits were designed for survival in the harsh conditions of the planet
Mercury. As such, she has the ability to see in intense light, and has a
high degree of resistance to heat and most types of radiation. As she
has matured, Nikki has demonstrated an ability to increase the intensity
of the flames radiating from her scalp, to the point of being able to
briefly project the flames outward as an offensive tactic; she has been
shown using this ability to burn the hair from Charlie-27's scalp and
eyebrows, scorch opponents such as the evil mutant Blockade, and
lay down a wall of flame to repel attackers. Another side effect of
Mercurian physiology is a natural body temperature of several hundred
degrees; at one point, Nikki took up swimming to temporarily reduce
her body temperature for Charlie-27's safety while they were in a
romantic relationship.

Nikki has achieved extensive proficiency in hand-to-hand combat and
proficiency in gymnastics and sharp-shooting. She is self-taught from
memory tapes.

Nikki is often armed with a neuronic frequency stun gun, a laser pistol,
and various handgun-type weapons as needed.

