NOH-VARR is a fictional superhero appearing in comic books published by
. He first appears in  Boy #1 (August 2000). He
appeared in the Civil War: Young Avengers/Runaways and the New
Avengers: Illuminati limited series. After his appearance in Secret
Invasion, he joins the Dark Avengers as Captain .


Publication history

 Boy was a six-issue limited series published from August 2000
to March 2001, as part of the experimental  Knights line. The
series was written by Grant Morrison, illustrated by J.G. Jones (with
Sean Parsons) and colored by Matt Milla of Avalon Studios. In a 2000
interview, Morrison described his stylistic intentions for the book:

The character has appeared since in a number of series. He took a big
part in the finale of the Secret Invasion, which leads into his new role
as Captain  in the Dark Avengers title. The writer Brian Michael
Bendis has said "what he represents is Norman can put an alien on the
team, whose [sic] one of the Anti-Skrulls. It's like, 'You hate Skrulls?
Well this guy kills Skrulls for a living! He came to our planet to kill
Skrulls!'." He appeared as a regular character in the Dark Avengers
series from issue #1-6.

As Protector, he appeared as a regular character in the 2010-2013
Avengers series, from issue #2 (August 2010) through his dismissal
from the team in issue #27 (August 2012).

 Boy appeared in the 2013 Young Avengers series by Kieron Gillen
and Jamie McKelvie.


Fictional character biography

Noh-Varr serves as an ensign aboard the 18th Kree Diplomatic Gestalt
interstellar schooner the , which traverses millions of
alternate dimensions on its way home. The ship is drawn toward the
 Universe and shot down by the forces of Doctor Midas, a
multi-trillionaire obsessed with gaining powers through the absorption
of cosmic rays. Midas blasts the  out of the sky in an attempt
to acquire the ship's cosmic ray-powered engines. His friends and
comrades killed, Noh-Varr emerges as the only survivor.

Noh-Varr then encounters the sentient corporation known as Hexus.
Accidentally released from a containment cell when the  crashed,
Hexus begins to take over world-wide commerce in an attempt to
subjugate the human population and ultimately control Earth. Noh-Varr
invades the control center of Hexus and ultimately destroys the "social
parasite" by releasing all of its trade secrets to its competitors.

Noh-Varr finds himself pursued by Doctor Midas and his minions, and upon
striking an alliance with Midas' daughter Oubliette, Noh-Varr defeats
the megalomaniac. After the battle, agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. capture
Noh-Varr and incarcerate him in a seemingly inescapable prison known as
the Cube. While in custody, Noh-Varr declares war on Earth and the human
race.

New Avengers: Illuminati

Noh-Varr at one stage gets the attention of the Illuminati. Its members:
Professor X, Mister Fantastic, Black Bolt, Iron Man, Doctor Strange, and
Namor are worried about the fact Noh-Varr has declared war on the entire
planet and try to change his mind. They visit him at the Cube in the
form of a mental projection, and speak to him in turn, explaining the
legacy of Captain  and telling Noh-Varr that he can choose to live
as a hero or spend the rest of his life in The Cube. They ultimately
leave him with the choice and tell him to earn his way out. (Dec 2006
Illuminati vol. 1 #1)

Civil War

Noh-Varr is brainwashed and ordered to capture the Runaways by
S.H.I.E.L.D. Director Maria Hill.

After being released for his mission by the cruel warden of the Cube,
Noh-Varr brutally subdues the Runaways and the Young Avengers. When the
warden of the Cube feels the mission has finished successfully, he
orders Noh-Varr's retrieval. As the Young Avengers and the Runaways
assault the Cube, he engages them in battle. After a brief fight,
Noh-Varr is defeated and the Vision reverses the Cube's mental control
over him. He is seen taking control of the Cube, declaring it to be the
capital city of the new Kree Empire.

Secret Invasion

When the alien virus the Skrulls upload release all the prisoners within
the Cube, Noh-Varr announces that it is "time to go." Later, while
escaping on a stolen S.H.I.E.L.D. minijet, he's stopped by a dying
Khn'nr. At first mistaking him for the original Captain , Noh-Varr
stops to listen to his final words, as Khn'nr appoints him as the new
Protector of the Earth, spurring him to fill in the role once covered by
Mar-Vell himself, and stop the Skrulls, perceived as liars and honorless
beings. Noh-Varr is left shaken by the revelation, after witnessing the
dying Khn'nr reverting to his alien Skrull appearance.

Finally deciding to take a side in the war, Noh-Varr uses the solar
energies of Captain 's Nega-Bands, causing a huge explosion in the
middle of the battle in New York. Then he declares to the Skrull army
that their invasion is over.

Dark Avengers

Noh-Varr is told by Norman Osborn that he is a war hero and he wants him
to be who he truly is. He is recruited to Norman Osborn's Avengers team,
and takes on the mantle of the new Captain .

When the Church of Hala branch in Charleston, South Carolina commit mass
suicide due to Noh-Varr taking Captain 's name, Carol Danvers goes
to investigate. While looking around, she finds Noh-Varr in an alley
behind the church. After Carol tries to attack Nor-Varr twice and blames
him for what the church has done in the original Captain 's name,
he explains that the Captain  they founded this church for was a
Skrull and he died in his arms, claiming his love for this world and her
people and asked he protect this world from those who wish to harm it.
Carol does not believe it and Noh-Varr flies away, telling her to
believe what she will and to remember this meeting, because he never
threw a punch.

After their first mission Noh-Varr has shown an attraction to teammate
Ms. , which is noticed by teammate Ares, much to his amusement.
The team then decided to relax in the Avengers Tower once they have
returned. In the evening, Noh-Varr is walking back to his room from a
shower, when Karla invites him into her room. After having sex with
Noh-Varr, Karla turned on the television, telling him she wanted to see
how Norman would explain why his "Avengers" are full of criminals.
Noh-Varr is shocked at the news that the rest of his teammates are all
criminals pretending to be heroes. He then goes missing.

Post-Dark Avengers

Since abandoning the team, Noh-Varr has kept a low profile in order to
elude the Dark Avengers and trying to determine what his role is while
he is living on Earth. In Dark Reign: The List - Wolverine, it is
revealed that one of Noh-Varr's missions as a Dark Avenger was to
capture the World facility. He goes to Wolverine and warns him of
Osborn's plan and together, they take the World facility from Osborn's
grasp, leaving it in the hands of Fantomex. Later, Noh-Varr befriends a
young woman named Annie at the same time he is found by the Sentry, who
has come to take him back to Osborn. A battle ensues in the middle of
Manhattan with Noh-Varr on the verge of losing when Annie intervenes and
fires on the Sentry with one of Noh-Varr's Kree weapons, distracting
him. Noh-Varr flees and returns to an abandoned building where he has
been building a Kree communicator to contact the Kree Supreme
Intelligence.

In Dark Avengers Annual #1, a holographic message sent by the Supreme
Intelligence tells Noh-Varr that the actions of the Skrulls during
Secret Invasion have left Earth in more danger than ever before and that
Noh-Varr is the planet's new protector. The Supreme Intelligence then
grants him the power needed to carry out his mission in the form of a
set of Nega-Bands, more advanced than the ones worn by Captain .
The bands also provide him with a new costume and prevent the Dark
Avengers from detecting his presence. After finding Annie and thanking
her for her help, he teleports away. Unbeknown to Noh-Varr however, he
was being observed by Captain America (Bucky) and Steve Rogers, who are
trying to determine if he could be a potential ally against Osborn.

Aftermath

[Noh-Varr as Protector.] Noh-Varr later appears as the new costumed
hero, Protector, in the back matter of Ms.  #50. Taking place
after an undefined amount of time after the events of Dark Avengers
Annual #1, Noh-Varr and Annie are seen traveling together. An
unidentified female, wearing hi-tech battle armor, from the future has
located Noh-Varr and time slips in to "test" Noh-Varr. Noh-Varr
transforms into the Protector and battles the female. The female
realizes she has met a younger and weaker Protector than expected and
before killing the civilians is knocked aside by Protector. The now
unmasked assailant is revealed to be an older Annie, telling Noh-Varr
"it will all make sense...someday" before locking onto another Noh-Varr
and time slipping out.

Heroic Age

Noh-Varr is recruited into the Avengers team to help them build a time
machine to save the future. Tony Stark attempts to hire him due to his
vast knowledge in order to 'unleash his alien mind onto the world',
which Noh-Varr turns down, having vowed to keep the secrets of Kree
technology out of the economy of Earth. Within a short time, Noh-Varr
creates a time-space continuum viewer which allows the Avengers to view
myriad possible futures, including MC2,  2099, Days of Future Past
and Age of Apocalypse, before seeing the timestream collapse. Noh-Varr
then helps the Avengers fight off an angry Wonder Man, who is convinced
the reformation of Avengers is a mistake. Shortly afterwards, they
are then attacked by a time-lost future Apocalypse and his four
horsemen, which consists of corrupted heroes including the Scarlet
Witch, Spider-Man, and Wolverine. In the aftermath, Noh-Varr manages to
calm down Spider-Man, who is bemoaning his possible future, with a joke
before he heads off with some of the team to build a new time
machine. Having traveled to the future with Wolverine, Captain
America, and Iron Man, they are promptly defeated by a possible future
team of Avengers, and taken to their leader Maestro, who is happy to see
them, as he is working with a future version of Tony Stark.

Fear Itself

During the Fear Itself storyline, Noh-Varr arrived in Brazil with
Spider-Woman and Ms.  to help Red She-Hulk fight the Hulk, who was
transformed into Nul: Breaker of Worlds.

Avengers vs. X-Men

During the Avengers vs. X-Men storyline, Noh-Varr locates a secret
A.I.M. base. The Avengers assemble where they take out the base and
arrest Monica Rappaccini and the rest of the A.I.M. scientists that
escaped following Osborn's defeat. After the battle, Noh-Varr checks in
with the Supreme Intelligence of the Kree Empire who informs him of the
coming Phoenix force and orders him to intercept and contain it at all
cost... even if means eliminating his Avenger teammates. In space,
after the Avengers fail to stop the Phoenix, Noh-Varr analyzes the
reason for their failure and discovers that Thor's Mjolnir hammer can
injure and absorb the Phoenix' essence. Before the team can celebrate,
Noh-Varr declares that he will take the collected energy back to the
Kree. While the Avengers wake up in their spaceship heading to a sun
and try to escape death, Noh-Varr takes the Phoenix energy to the
Supreme Intelligence. However, the Supreme Intelligence declares that
the energy will not be used to save Earth. Noh-Varr turns against the
Supreme Intelligence and escapes with the energy. The Avengers meet him,
take the energy, and declare him an enemy of the team telling him never
to return to Earth. Noh-Varr is left in Hala running for his life from
the Kree.

 NOW!

Noh-Varr later appears in the Young Avengers series as part of 
NOW!_.


Powers and abilities

Noh-Varr is a Kree (albeit from another universe) who has been enhanced
with insect DNA. He has demonstrated enhanced reflexes, speed, strength,
and endurance well beyond that capable of a normal human. He is able to
re-route his neurological impulses so that he can avoid experiencing
physical pain, and even suppress any stimulus he does not want to
experience, making him a deadly opponent in battle. In Civil War: Young
Avengers/Runaways he performs a "White run", pushing everything
unrelated to the fight from his mind, allowing him to defeat Xavin,
Karolina Dean, Wiccan, and Hulkling within 5 seconds.

In addition, Noh-Varr is "triple jointed," allowing extreme feats of
contortion and the ability to survive what would otherwise be crushing
forces. Noh-Varr can also scale even the smoothest surfaces, including
vertical walls, glass windows, and ceilings.

When needed, he can digest any organic substance without adverse
effects. As a result, he can eat rotting or poisonous food as well as
non-food stuffs (e.g., cardboard, paper, etc.). He uses this ability to
recover from wounds or extreme stress.

Noh-Varr's saliva contains biologically active properties that infects
the bodies of those it touches. This causes hallucinations and allows
Noh-Varr a degree of mind-control. His fingernails can grow into a
deadly crystalline spike. Noh-Varr can insert this nail into an opponent
and leave it to explode, killing the target as well as causing extensive
damage to the surrounding area.

In Dark Avengers Annual #1, Noh-Varr makes contact with his people and
is given a pair of Nega-Bands of his own along with a new costume.

Noh-Varr also has access to a wide variety of advanced Kree technology,
including high-tech weaponry such as self-replicating grenades, plasma
guns, and a "pocket battlefield" that can simulate unique battle
environments for combatants.

Noh-Varr is adept at the sciences of interdimensional travel. He can
construct and operate devices to view and traverse the timestream and
alternate dimensions.


Reception

Writing in 2006, journalist Tom Spurgeon praised the series: In 2013,
ComicsAlliance ranked Noh-Varr as #2 on their list of the "50 Sexiest
Male Characters in Comics".

