NORTHSTAR (JEAN-PAUL BEAUBIER) is a fictional superhero appearing in
American comic books published by . Created by Chris
Claremont and John Byrne, the character first appeared in X-Men #120
(April 1979) as a member of the fictional Canadian superhero team, Alpha
Flight.

Northstar is a member of a fictional subspecies of humanity known as
mutants, who are born with superhuman abilities. The character possesses
the ability to travel at superhuman speeds, fly, and project photonic
energy blasts. His twin sister, Aurora possesses similar abilities.
Although the character was initially depicted as a member of Alpha
Flight, he has appeared regularly as a member of the X-Men since joining
the team of mutants in Uncanny X-Men #414 (December 2002).

The character is one of the first openly gay superheroes in American
comic books, and the first openly gay character to come out in a book
published by . He married his husband, Kyle Jinadu, in
Astonishing X-Men #51 (June 2012), which was the first depiction of a
same-sex marriage in mainstream comics.


Publication history

1979–1994

Northstar debuted in Uncanny X-Men #120 (April 1979) as part of the
Canadian government sponsored team Alpha Flight, who seek to take
Wolverine of the X-Men into custody. In 1983, Alpha Flight went on to
star in its own comic, with Northstar as a charter member. In addition
to the Alpha Flight comic and associated annuals, Northstar and other
members of the team made numerous guest appearances in other titles,
particularly Uncanny X-Men and Wolverine. Northstar was also
featured in miniseries including two X-Men and Alpha Flight series and
Secret Wars II.

Creator John Byrne was reluctant to produce an initial run of the 1983
Alpha Flight comic series for lack of developed and compelling
characters, which had no back-stories and were created as nothing more
than a team to face the X-Men. So in order to make the team less
two-dimensional and more developed, Northstar's sexual orientation was
subtly introduced into the start of the new Alpha Flight series.
Although Byrne had intended the character to be gay, he was restricted
to implied hints of this fact, due to  editor-in-chief Jim
Shooter's policy against openly homosexual characters, and by the
Comics Code Authority. Thus, Northstar's apparent lack of interest in
women was implied to be due to his obsessive drive to win as a ski
champion, and writer Bill Mantlo's later attempt to reveal that
Northstar had AIDS was squelched. In Alpha Flight #106 (1992),
writer Scott Lobdell was finally given permission to have Northstar
state, "I am gay."

As the first major, openly gay character created by ,
Northstar generated significant publicity in the mainstream press
and Alpha Flight #106 sold out in a week, despite the fact that the
series was not a very popular title. It is the only comic book issue
to have been inducted into the Gaylactic Hall of Fame. The event was
also controversial, and almost no mention was made of his sexual
orientation for the remainder of the first Alpha Flight series, which
ended with issue #130 in 1994. One exception was a subplot in which his
sister Aurora — experiencing a split personality — accepted his
homosexuality in one personality, while rejecting it in the other. After
the cancellation of Alpha Flight,_ Northstar appeared in his own
miniseries, which completely ignored his sexuality. Interactions between
Northstar and other gay characters have been depicted, such as in a
 Swimsuit Special, in which he is shown socializing with the gay
Pantheon member Hector.

1994–present

After the 1994 cancellation of Alpha Flight, Northstar starred in an
eponymous four issue limited series. In 1997 a second on-going
series of Alpha Flight was initiated. Northstar was not initially a
member of this group, but appeared in later issues searching for his
missing sister Aurora. He featured in eight issues before the series
cancellation with issue #20.

In 2005,  killed Northstar in three separate continuities within
the space of one calendar month. Between February 16 and March 9, 2005,
versions of Northstar were killed in the Earth-616-based Wolverine
#25, and in X-Men: Age of Apocalypse and X-Men: The End (a possible
story of the X-Men's final days; Northstar was one of many to die in the
series), both of which were set in alternate timelines. Northstar
did not stay dead long in 's primary continuity, as he is
resurrected in Wolverine #26.

When Northstar rejoined the X-Men as a regular member in 2002, writers
were less hesitant to address his sexual orientation. Northstar even
experienced a crush on long-time X-Man Iceman, though it was
unrequited. One of his students in the Alpha Squadron, Victor
Borkowski, the gay mutant Anole, looks up to him as a role
model. When Northstar rejoined the X-Men yet again in 2009, he
was revealed to be in a relationship with his sports company's events
manager Kyle. Their relationship faces strain from the remaining
mutants' exodus to the mutant island Utopia, though the two agree to
work through their issues. It was later implied that he also had a
sexual relationship with Hercules at an unspecified point in time.

Northstar and Kyle's marriage in issue #51 of Astonishing X-Men, drew
attention from the right-wing group One Million Moms.


Fictional character biography

Jean-Paul Beaubier is born to a French Canadian family in Montreal, but
after his parents die in an automobile accident during his childhood, he
and his twin sister, Jeanne-Marie, are separated. Jean-Paul is later
adopted, but his adopted parents are killed after only a couple of
years. Prior to his debut as a superhero, Beaubier competes as a
professional skier. He became an elite level skier during his teenage
years, prior to his mutation surfacing. Once he develops his mutant
abilities he becomes virtually unbeatable and eventually bores of the
sport due to the lack of competition. He becomes an angry and rebellious
youth and, as a young adult, joins the Front de libération du Québec, a
terrorist separatist movement organized to win independence for Quebec
from Canada. However, he soon becomes disgusted with the group's tactics
and renounces terrorism. Beaubier then learns of a superhero group
financed by the Canadian government called Alpha Flight. He then
reunites with his sister Jeanne-Marie, who takes the name Aurora.

Alpha Flight

Jean-Paul joins Alpha Flight, adopting the codename Northstar. It is
there that he is reunited with his twin sister Jeanne-Marie (“Aurora”).
Northstar's debut occurs in Uncanny X-Men #120, in which he is a
member of Alpha Flight combating the X-Men to capture former teammate
Wolverine.

Alpha Flight learns that it is being disbanded, and Jean-Paul is shocked
when he witnesses his sister’s split personalities. He encounters his
old friend Raymond Belmonde, a man who took him in and mentored him,
helping him become comfortable with himself and steering him on the
right path. He introduces Aurora to Belmonde only for the twins to be
attacked by local crime boss Deadly Ernest, who kills Belmonde. The
twins deal with the villain, though their relationship sours when
Northstar offends Aurora by asking if she had “romanced her way to
safety.” Aurora refuses to speak with him after that, and her lover and
teammate Sasquatch assists her in altering her powers such that she no
longer needs Northstar to generate light. Her attempts to isolate him
cause Northstar to quit Alpha Flight.

Eventually, Aurora arrives at his doorstep, seeking his help. The twins
begin to reconcile, but Aurora rejects him again when she discovers
Jean-Paul’s history as a terrorist with the FLQ, telling the other
members of Alpha Flight. They cross-examine him about his terrorist
activities, though any discussion is dropped due to an emergency.
When Sasquatch dies, the twins reconcile after Northstar comforts his
grieving sister. However, during a confrontation with the Hulk,
Northstar and Aurora discover that her power alterations cause the twins
to negate one another’s abilities upon touching. After the battle
finishes, Northstar decides to rejoin Alpha Flight.

While on a skiing vacation, Northstar is forced to publicly expose
himself as a mutant to save a woman's life. Spectators accuse the
retired skiing champion of using his powers to cheat. Realizing that he
could not know if he had subconsciously used his abilities in the past,
he relinquishes his medals and bitterly turns his back on skiing
forever.

The villain Pestilence senses decay in Northstar's body and causes his
sickness to grow serious to the point that his wounds no longer heal,
slowly killing him. As his illness progresses, Aurora desperately uses
her healing light to cure him. The twins' later use of their powers
on one another stabilizes their abilities back to their original state,
also allowing Northstar to generate light independently like Aurora.
During another battle, Northstar discovers an abandoned baby girl in an
alley. Doctors discover that the baby girl is dying of AIDS, having been
infected with HIV in the womb. Jean-Paul adopts her and names her Joanne
Beaubier, and he and Alpha Flight performed various events to remind the
public of AIDS and the dangers of remaining silent about it. Her death
weeks later spurs Northstar to publicly acknowledge that he is
homosexual, hoping that his role as a gay man and a celebrity will
increase media attention on HIV/AIDS safety and prevention.

Eventually Northstar decides to leave Alpha Flight and writes a memoir
about his experience as a mutant and gay man entitled Born Normal.

X-Men

In the 2001 Eve of Destruction story arc, Northstar is briefly recruited
to an improvised team of X-Men by Jean Grey to rescue Professor X, who
has been captured by Magneto and is being kept prisoner in Genosha.
Jean meets Northstar at a book-signing appearance, where he is mobbed.
One person in the crowd turns out to be carrying a gun. Northstar foils
his own assassination attempt at super-speed. Later, he meets one of the
new mutants, an invulnerable young man who goes by the name of Omerta.
This man is very homophobic and it leads to an actual fight between the
two on the driveway of the X-Men's mansion.

At Professor Xavier's request, Northstar then works with the X-Men to
save the life of a mutant child who cannot stop exploding. Despite his
speed, Northstar cannot save the boy, who perishes simply because of his
powers. Soon afterwards, Northstar officially joins the X-Men and
becomes an instructor at the Xavier Institute, teaching business,
economics, and French. He is also shown teaching flying classes.
Northstar becomes a mentor to his own squad of young mutants, Alpha
Squadron, and forms a close mentor relationship with student Anole.
During his time at Xavier's, he forms a close friendship with Annie
Ghazikhanian, a former nurse at the Xavier Institute. Annie realizes
that Northstar has developed an attraction to Bobby Drake. Bobby remains
oblivious, despite Northstar, who was currently sick, saving him from
the misguided anger of a jealous mutant.

When HYDRA forms an alliance with the cults the Dawn of the White Light
and the Hand, the groups start recruiting new agents from the superhero
community by killing, resurrecting, and brainwashing them. The X-Man
Wolverine is one of their victims, brainwashed into becoming a HYDRA
assassin. He eventually attacks the X-Men and kills Northstar. One of
the New Mutants, Elixir, manages to heal Northstar's wounds but is
unable to revive him. A few days later a statue of Northstar is created
in memory of him and is placed in a garden of statues of various fallen
X-Men on the campus grounds. S.H.I.E.L.D. requests that Northstar be
decapitated in order to prevent a resurrection, but before anything can
happen, Northstar's body is stolen by Elektra, another brainwashed
victim of HYDRA. A resurrected Northstar leads an attack with Elektra on
the S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier, crippling S.H.I.E.L.D. and putting Nick
Fury in critical condition. Northstar also takes the time to kill
racists and homophobes all across the country, and makes use of his
regained 'flash', the ability to generate a brief blinding light.
Wolverine meets Northstar, but is taken prisoner by the other Dawn of
the White Light mutants, all of whom he kills except for Northstar. When
Northstar refuses to tell Wolverine the location of HYDRA's command
center, Wolverine knocks him out and calls S.H.I.E.L.D. to pick him up
and psychologically "deprogram" him. Nick Fury reports that Northstar's
body was not found and he is presumed dead, while actually being in
S.H.I.E.L.D. custody.

Not long afterward, the mysterious group of superhumans known as the
Children of the Vault abducts Northstar from the S.H.I.E.L.D. holding
facility in order to use him to kill their enemies, Sabretooth and the
X-Men. They easily are able to mentally control Northstar due to the
Hand's previous mental manipulations leaving his psyche fragile. Under
their control he then finds his sister about to commit suicide and stops
her so that The Children can mentally control her too. Together they
attack the school under The Children's command and make quick work of
several X-Men, notably Iceman and Anole, whose encounter with Northstar
briefly shakes him from mind-control. Leaving Aurora to battle the
X-Men, Northstar begins a search for Sabretooth but is stopped by Rogue
and Cable. The X-Men take Northstar and Aurora to the S.H.I.E.L.D.
Helicarrier in an attempt to fix the mental damage inflicted on the
twins. Using their V.R. equipment the X-Men allow the twins to relive
their lives at an accelerated pace. The process is interrupted near the
end of the session by Exodus, creating a telepathic connection between
the twins. Using each other's emotional support they apparently manage
to face their inner turmoils. This allows both brother and sister to
gain a higher level of control of their powers.

X-Men split and reformation

Northstar is later contacted by Cyclops to find Anole, who goes into
hiding after accidentally attacking his own father due to post traumatic
stress disorder from his time at the X-Mansion. Northstar discovers
Anole on a tree limb beside a tree house, the teenager not too happy to
see his former mentor. At first, Jean-Paul makes jokes, thinking Victor
is having a problem with fitting in, as both a mutant and as a gay teen.
Victor explains that his town accepts him for who he is – his problems
come from Northstar, along with the other X-Men, for stealing the New
X-Men's innocence. Just before Anole departs, he elbows Jean-Paul in the
face – similar to how Northstar attacked him in the past – and tells him
to tell all of the former New X-Men not to come looking for him.

Northstar and his sister Aurora respond to Emma Frost's telepathic APB
and fight alongside the X-Men in San Francisco against the Skrulls when
they invade Earth. However, Jean-Paul also makes a life for himself
outside of superheroics, having returned to being a star at extreme
snowsports, as well as starting his own brand of snow sporting equipment
and becoming involved in a relationship. Wolverine then approaches him
to rejoin the X-Men to help fill a much needed speedster role on the
team. After receiving confirmation that he would not be the team's token
gay member, he accepts.

Later while training Surge in the use of super-speed, Northstar stops to
give an interview. During the interview he finds out about Simon Trask's
Proposition X. He runs back to the X-Men and threatens to quit and go
back to Canada. However, he remains with the X-Men throughout several
missions, including confrontations with Norman Osborn's Dark
X-Men and a rescue mission to retrieve Illyana Rasputin
after she is banished to Limbo during the events of Second Coming.

A temporal copy of Northstar—from a period of time shortly before the
apparent death of Guardian at the hands of Jerry Jaxon—was introduced
near the end of the third Alpha Flight series, along with an entire
team of early Alpha Flight members. This Northstar is last seen with a
similarly time-displaced Aurora, still operating in the Earth-616
present.

During the Chaos War storyline, Northstar alongside Aurora, Sasquatch,
and Snowbird are reunited with a resurrected Guardian, Vindicator,
Shaman, and Marrina Smallwood, and they reform Alpha Flight.


Powers and abilities

[Northstar and Aurora. Art by Leinil Francis Yu.|200px|thumb]

Northstar is a mutant who can move and fly at superhuman speed with the
potential of reaching near light speeds. He also possesses superhuman
stamina, endurance (both essential to maintain super-speed for any
length of time), and reflexes. He can channel a portion of the kinetic
energy of the atomic motion in his body's molecules in a single
direction, accelerating his body to a velocity in direct proportion to
the amount of kinetic energy he has tapped. Northstar also has an
advanced equilibrium, and exceptional agility, reaction time, and
coordination which allows for him to make sharp turns, and run at such
speeds without becoming sick. Northstar is also able to punch at great
speeds, which grants him the ability to hurt even the Hulk. In an early
issue of Alpha Flight Northstar reveals to readers that his sister
Aurora has greater endurance and can fly longer, whereas he can fly
faster in the same amount of time. Northstar can create cyclones by
running in circles, can run up walls and across water, and can breathe
while traveling at supersonic speeds. However, if Northstar wanted to
travel with someone else at superhuman speeds, they would need a
breathing apparatus to keep from asphyxiating.

As a side effect of partially robbing his molecules of their atomic
motion, the binding forces within and between the molecules have
increased, which enhances the sheer toughness of Northstar's entire
body. This effect gives his skin enough durability to withstand speeds
up to at least Mach 10 without injury, but the upper limit of this
ability has not been measured. It had once been theorized that Northstar
could fly at 99% of the speed of light: , although this has never been
attempted because he would do irreparable damage to the environment.
While Northstar can withstand Mach 10 speeds, traveling any faster would
carry complications with breathing and damage caused by wind and air
resistance to his body. When Aurora, his sister, and Northstar are in
contact with each other, usually by holding hands, they can also vary
the rate of acceleration of his molecules to release a cascade of
photons creating a momentary burst of light equal to one million candela
which they use to blind their opponents. The only other minor drawback
to this ability, other than he and his sister having to be in contact
with each other to utilize this gift, is that they are unable to adjust
the brilliance of the flash. After being captured by the Children of the
Vault in the Supernovas arc of Mike Carey's X-Men, his and Aurora's
powers have been enhanced to the point where they can now move at light
speed without harm and can generate explosive thermal energy in addition
to light.

Northstar is a world-class professional skier, skilled trapeze artist,
business man, and an accomplished novelist. A native French speaker, he
is also fluent in English. He is a good hand-to-hand combatant using a
style utilizing his superhuman speed, and received coaching from his
teammate Puck. After his resurrection by the Hand, Northstar has been
trained in the martial arts. Northstar also has peak human strength, but
has superhuman strength in his legs.

Northstar wears a costume of synthetic stretch fabric made of special
materials for protection from friction and other hazards of superhuman
speed.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

[Northstar and Aurora in the Age of Apocalypse. Art by Steve Epting.]

In the Age of Apocalypse, Northstar and Aurora are part of Mr.
Sinister's Elite Mutant Force (E.M.F.) and, as such, are assigned to
patrolling the breeding pens. The siblings are rather snotty about their
superior status as mutants and seem to take great pleasure in punishing
those prisoners who act up or try to escape. When the E.M.F.'s leader,
Cyclops, switches sides, secretly helping some inmates to escape, he is
caught in the act by the speeding twins. However, both of them are
defeated by Cyclops and the prisoner he was helping to escape, which
happens to be Polaris. When the series was revisited for the 10 year
anniversary, both Northstar and Aurora are later killed by Weapon X
(Wolverine) and Kirika (X-23 in the main  Universe).

 Zombies

In the  Zombies comics set in the universe of Earth-2149, the
zombified Alpha Flight attack the X-Men and are eventually killed by
Magneto. Northstar is seen in a panel of  Zombies Dead Days
attacking the X-Man Storm alongside his sister Aurora. The two are
killed by Magneto only moments later.

Ultimate 

In the Ultimate  Universe, his features are similar to his
original counterpart, although his ears are no longer pointed. He can
also move at super-speed, though he has yet to demonstrate the ability
to fly, or any abilities related to light emission.

A student at New York City's Stuyvesant High School, Northstar is kicked
off the school's track team for suspected illegal steroid use. In fact,
his unnatural levels of speed are actually due to his mutation. When the
X-Men reveal to him he is a mutant and ask him to join them, he turns
them down, saying that separating themselves from humans is segregation
and noting how a student there (Beast) had been recently killed.

Soon after, Mister Sinister, a deranged man who is apparently under
orders of Apocalypse to kill ten mutants, shoots Northstar. Thanks to
his quick reflexes, Northstar manages to survive the attack but is left
in a coma. After being hospitalized, he is awakened from his coma by the
X-Man Jean Grey. Upon being told that Colossus had watched over him all
night to protect him from any further attacks, Northstar asks if
Colossus is single, startling Colossus so much that his body
involuntarily turns to steel.

Northstar is later recruited by Emma Frost to join the Academy of
Tomorrow, a magnet school for gifted children both mutant and human with
a more pacifistic and integrationist philosophy than the X-Men. Along
with fellow students Lorna Dane and Alex Summers, he completes Frost's
Advanced Leadership Workshop, allowing him to make use of his powers
performing off-campus community service missions in conjunction with
local authorities. When Lorna is framed for murder and imprisoned in the
Triskelion (the headquarters of the Ultimates), in an elaborate scheme
by Magneto to help him escape the prison, Northstar is part of the group
of Frost's students who try to break her out. During a battle with the
Ultimates and the X-Men, he shows that he has improved his abilities
enough to move faster than the human eye (allowing him to attack without
being seen), run across water (though a direct hit from a super-powered
person could cause him to sink), and resist gravity (he is able to run
up the side of a tall building).

During the battle he shows romantic interest in Colossus, and a week
later it is revealed that the two have kept in contact, having exchanged
email addresses. Colossus is shown on the phone talking to Northstar,
who asks Colossus to be his date to his school's homecoming dance (which
he accepts). But the dance is interrupted by the Brotherhood. After the
supposed death of Charles Xavier, Colossus agrees to temporarily live
with Northstar at his school.

During a softball game between the Academy of Tomorrow and the Xavier
School, Ultimate Alpha Flight shows up to kidnap Northstar. Aurora makes
her debut, revealing herself to be Northstar's sister. She physically
takes him against his will. Later, Colossus, Cyclops, Rogue, Angel,
Dazzler, and Nightcrawler break into Alpha Flight's base to rescue him.
After they incapacitate Alpha Flight, Colossus finds Northstar
overdosing on the mutant drug, Banshee, resulting in him being crippled
from the waist down.

X-Men: The End

In the alternate future of X-Men: The End, Northstar is one of many
members of the staff of the Xavier Institute. He briefly survives the
destruction of it and several surrounding miles, only to die in Scott
Summers' arms. As he passes on, he sees a vision of his Alpha Flight
friends, leading is his sister, who encourages him to leave his body.

House of M

In the alternate reality created by the Scarlet Witch known as House of
M, Northstar is an agent of S.H.I.E.L.D., responsible for training a
squad of young mutants and superhumans in the agency's junior training
squad program. Much like the rest of the super-powered community in
House of M, Northstar supported this reality's Magneto and his
mutant-supremacy platform.

Age of X

In the Age of X reality, Jean-Paul was on the first team of Fortress X
defenders to attack Kitty Pryde when she breached the barriers, while
Jean-Paul wants revenge for his sister's murder.


In other media

Television

[Scene from the X-Men episode "Repo Man"]

-   Northstar appears in the X-Men episodes "Slave Island", "Repo
    Man", and the Phoenix Saga's "Child of Light" voiced by
    Rene Lemieux. No mention or hint is made of his sexual orientation.
    In the cartoon, Northstar possesses the ability to fly and generate
    a blinding light when he slaps hands with his sister Aurora. Though
    he did not have any speaking role in Slave Island, the episode
    Repo Man showed the character's origins as he spoke with a French
    Canadian accent. In "Slave Island", Jean-Paul is a hostage/prisoner
    of the island nation of Genosha. He, along with many other mutants,
    provides slave labor for the government using their mutant skills
    for such tasks as building dams. They wear special collars which
    restrict them from using their powers to escape, and they sleep in
    prison-like cells. They eventually escape Genosha with the help of
    the X-Men. In "Repo Man", Northstar is shown as part of the Canadian
    Special Forces team Alpha Flight, which tries to convince former
    member Wolverine to rejoin. Northstar and other Alpha Flight members
    make a brief cameo in "Child of Light".
-   Northstar is briefly mentioned in the episode "This Forest Green" of
    the animated series Super Hero Squad Show.

Video games

-   Northstar appears in X-Men: Destiny, voiced by Yuri Lowenthal. The
    player character on the X-Men's side encounters Northstar during a
    mission to escort a courier to Gambit and protect him from the
    Purifiers.
-   Northstar appears as an NPC in the video game  Heroes,
    voiced by Michael Beattie. He is one of the teachers at the
    Xavier Institute.

Toys

An Alpha Flight Northstar and Aurora 2 Pack Figure set was released by
ToyBiz as part of three Alpha Flight action figures released as part of
the  Collector Editions series in 1999 by Toy Biz. Snowbird and
Puck were packaged together while Sasquatch came with Vindicator
(Heather Hudson). All three sets came with motion collector's cards.

In September 2007, Hasbro ran a poll with ToyFare magazine of potential
 Legends X-Men prototype figurines, one of which was Northstar in
his original costume. Aurora was also a prototype. The Northstar
prototype placed 7th out of 8 in the final poll results, with Aurora
placing 8th.

A two-pack set of mini-busts of Aurora and Northstar were due for
shipment in October 2008.

