NUKE is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books
published by . The character is depicted as being from
Earth-712, a member of the Squadron Supreme and later its rebooted
equivalent, Supreme Power.


Squadron Supreme

Fictional character biography

Albert Gaines was born in a suburb of Motor City, Wyandota (the
Earth-712 equivalent of Detroit, Michigan), where his father and mother
lived. Albert was a nuclear plant worker when he accidentally gained his
superhuman powers. He became NUKE, an adventurer and member of the
Squadron Supreme, and a super-powered hero who kept his identity a
secret from even his own family.

Alongside the other Squadron members, he became mind-controlled by the
Over-Mind. He was used along with the other members as pawns in the
Over-Mind's conquest of "Other-Earth," until he was freed by the
Defenders. He battled and defeated the Over-Mind and Null the Living
Darkness alongside the Squadron and the Defenders.

Alongside the Squadron Supreme, Nuke assumed control of the government
of the United States of "Other-Earth," and publicly revealed his true
identity. Nuke then found out that his parents were dying from
radiation poisoning, brought on by exposure to his own powers. Nuke
turned to Tom Thumb to help find a cure for them; however, when Tom
could not find a cure for cancer, Nuke vowed revenge on Tom. Nuke
went insane with grief over his parents' death, and went on a rampage.
Doctor Spectrum, however, tried to hold Nuke back and prevent him from
murdering Tom Thumb, by encasing him in one of his energy bubble
constructs, accidentally killing him when Nuke's use of his own powers
burned up the oxygen supply inside the bubble and he suffocated.

Powers and abilities

Albert Gaines was imbued with superhuman powers as a result of mutation
through exposure to radioactive waste products. He thus had the ability
to generate nuclear energy within his body through nuclear decay. Hence,
his body continually gave off low-level radiation, although this level
became much higher over the last year of his life. Nuke himself was
immune to adverse effects of radiation. He could mentally manipulate the
nuclear energy generated and stored within his body. He could project
destructive bursts of radiation from his body. He could fly by
propelling himself with nuclear energy. Towards the end of his life,
Nuke also wore an air-conditioned radiation containment suit equipped
with a radiometer to measure his radiation output, designed by Tom
Thumb.

Nuke was a fair hand-to-hand combatant, and received coaching from
Nighthawk.

Nuke suffered from emotional and psychological instability that finally
led to insanity.


Supreme Power

Nuke is introduced as Mr. Al Gaines, a young, severely depressed man
living underground in a fallout shelter alone because his body emits
high levels of radiation he cannot control. He is near invulnerable, can
fly, and apparently superhumanly strong. General Alexander offers him a
suit that will control his radiation output in return for fighting
Hyperion, whom General Alexander directs the blame for his condition.

In a fight with Hyperion the combination of Hyperion's eye-beams, Nuke's
radiation blast, and Arcanna Jones' quantum alterations creates a brief
and unexplainable skip in reality that sends Gaines, Jones, Dr. Emil
Burbank and Raleigh Lund two years into the future. An off-hand remark
noted that Doctor Spectrum will kill Nuke at some point.

Nuke has joined the government's Squadron Supreme. During a session
in which all the Squadron members were asked to fill out information
about themselves, Nuke's parents were revealed deceased. In the first
mission he is high up in the sky to be used as a tactical nuke, the
person of last resort.


In other media

Television

-   Nuke appears in the Avengers Assemble episode "Avengers' Last
    Stand," voiced by Phil LaMarr. He appears as a member of the
    Squadron Supreme. When the Avengers raid the Squadron Supreme's
    citadel a third time, they find it is actually draining some energy
    from Earth's core in order to restore Nuke who then destroys the
    citadel (though Ant-Man manages to shrink himself and the other
    Avengers to safety onto Mjolnir). Nuke then meets up with Nighthawk
    as he is pleased that the Squadron Supreme is back together. Nuke is
    present when Nighthawk makes his demands on television. In the
    episode "Avengers Underground," Iron Man, Thor, and Falcon trap
    Zarda and Nuke in the same prison box. As part of his contingency
    plan Nighthawk then teleports Nuke and Hyperion to the tower where
    Hyperion absorbs Nuke's power with the intent on destroying Earth.

