OGRE is a fictional character of the  Universe.


Fictional character biography

Ogre was originally an operative of the mutant terrorist organization
Factor Three. However he had no mutant powers, and he used an
explosive helmet to blackmail Banshee who soon battled the original
X-Men.

When Factor Three disbanded, Ogre remained behind in Mount Charteris
(outside Burton Canyon, Colorado), one of their many mountain bases.
Over the years the base was occupied by HYDRA, the Sons of the Serpent,
August Masters and the Masters of Evil (led by the second Crimson Cowl).
When Moonstone was held prisoner by the Masters of Evil, Ogre slipped a
key into her room which released her from her shackles. This helped
Moonstone and the Thunderbolts defeat the Masters.

Hawkeye, the new leader of the Thunderbolts, suggested that they keep
Mount Charteris as their own headquarters. As time passed, the
Thunderbolts began to notice strange things happening in their
headquarters. Atlas's damaged costume was repaired. A hover vehicle
Hawkeye borrowed from the Champions was renovated overnight. The team
began to realize someone was hiding in the unexplored levels of Mount
Charteris and began to investigate.

After a brief skirmish with the Thunderbolts, Atlas convinced Ogre that
they meant him no harm. The Ogre recounted his story and Hawkeye offered
Ogre membership. Soon after, the Thunderbolts went back to their part
of the mountain base and Ogre was knocked unconscious by Techno, a
former member of the Thunderbolts. Techno had Ogre placed in a cryogenic
sleep. Techno then morphed his appearance so he would resemble Ogre
and took his place on the team.

For months Techno pretended to be Ogre, causing mischief amongst his
former teammates. When Techno was seemingly destroyed by Scourge saving
Jolt (who had also been in cryogenic sleep), Ogre was released.

Soon after, it was revealed that Ogre had his own cryogenic prisoner
that he had been holding captive for several years. Sonny Baredo, a.k.a.
Humus Sapien, was kidnapped by Factor Three years earlier, but it was
decided he was too dangerous to be released. When the Thunderbolts
disbanded the Redeemers and S.H.I.E.L.D. took over operation of Mount
Charteris, a resurrected Techno (now in a human body) began to
investigate and released Baredo. Mount Charteris was destroyed as a
result. The Redeemers fought Humus Sapien and discovered that every time
he used his powers, someone else on Earth died. Eventually Baredo
decided to leave Earth through an extra-dimensional tesseract rather
than endanger innocents. Ogre chose to leave Earth with him, in part to
gain redemption for his keeping Baredo prisoner.


Powers and abilities

Ogre appears to have an increased level of engineering and scientific
knowledge beyond the current level of technology, including the design
and creation of weapons systems and vehicles. He carries various weapons
of his own design, such as particle blasters and lasers.

