OMEGA THE UNKNOWN was an American comic book published by 
from 1976 to 1977, featuring the eponymous fictional character. The
series, written by Steve Gerber and Mary Skrenes and illustrated by Jim
Mooney, ran for 10 issues before cancellation for low sales. Despite its
short run, it has remained as a cult classic due to its intriguing
characters and unusual storytelling. A 10-issue series revamping the
character was published from 2007 to 2008, written by novelist Jonathan
Lethem and illustrated by Farel Dalrymple.


Creation and concept

Unlike many other superhero titles, the main focus of Omega the
Unknown is not on the super-powered person in an iconic costume and
cape. Instead the story largely deals with an unusually mature
12-year-old boy named James-Michael Starling. Through the 10-issue
run of the original comic book series it is made clear that there is a
connection between the laconic superhero Omega and the strangely
analytical child James-Michael, with most issues adding to the
mysterious nature of their relationship. Interviewed in 2005 after the
sequel to the original series was announced, co-creator Steve Gerber
stated that he "wanted to do a series about a real kid who was nobody's
sidekick, facing real problems in what today would be called a 'grim 'n
gritty' setting." The series was cancelled in 1977, but Steve Gerber
promised to wrap up its unfinished plotlines in The Defenders.
Gerber was fired by  in 1978 and never completed the
storyline. In 2010, Comics Bulletin ranked Gerber and Mooney's run on
Omega the Unknown tenth on its list of the "Top 10 1970s ".

In late 1978, Al Milgrom, the editor of The Defenders, assigned writer
Steven Grant to complete the story, the conclusion of which was still
being sought after in fan correspondence. Grant did this in two
issues of The Defenders in 1979, at the end of which most of the
original series's characters were killed. While Gerber seemed unhappy
with Grant's conclusion, it nevertheless tied up the loose ends of
the comic series, and is considered "canon" by . Grant later
wrote that the character held no interest for him, but he had tried to
approach writing the story in the way that he felt that Gerber would
have, had he been allowed to complete it himself.


Plot synopsis

In the premiere issue, the character of Omega is shown as the last
surviving member of an unnamed alien race. He escapes the mechanical
beings who have devastated his planet in a ship headed to Earth. The
story then cuts to James-Michael waking up in bed having dreamed the
events that just occurred with Omega.

In his waking world, James-Michael and his parents are moving to New
York City from the mountains so he can improve his socialization skills
after years of home-schooling. En route to New York the Starlings' car
is driven off the road and both of James-Michael's parents are killed,
but not before the boy discovers that both of them were robots.
James-Michael collapses into a coma and awakens a month later in a
private hospital exhibiting an eerie lack of emotional response to his
parents' deaths. The hospital is later attacked by one of the mechanical
beings that destroyed Omega's home world, and Omega himself appears to
defend James-Michael. The superhero and the android fight but the
conflict ends when James-Michael himself destroys the alien mechanism
with energy bursts from his hands (an effect used by Omega in
James-Michael's dreams).

After this beginning, the story follows James-Michael's life as he is
fostered to two young women in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood of New
York City. The series explores the problems he encounters in a strange
new place, and his trials and friendships in a New York City public
school. Issues of racism and bullying are addressed, although the
stories' focus is on how the reserved and detached James-Michael relates
to the world around him.

Meanwhile, Omega the Unknown becomes a superhero figure in New York
City, tending to fight only second-string super-villains, though he did
once confront the Hulk, with a variety of outcomes. Otherwise, Omega
tends to appear when James-Michael is in danger and then takes a more
proactive role. As the series progresses Omega and James-Michael
eventually meet and interact, although the nature of their relationship
remains unclear. Omega himself is killed in the 10th and final issue,
leaving the mysteries of the story unresolved.


Fictional character biography

Omega the Unknown is a humanoid being of superhuman power bio-engineered
by an extraterrestrial mechanoid race named the Protar, from the planet
Protaris in the Regreb System in the Milky Way Galaxy. The Protar,
foreseeing its own extinction, decided to create an ideal race of true
humanoids as their legacy to the cosmos. Their penultimate model, later
called Omega, was placed on the planet Srenesk (an anagram of series
co-writer [Mary] "Skrenes") to learn. He commandeered a Protar starship
and fled to Earth after inadvertently destroying the world on which he
was placed. The Earth was the home of the final "model" in his series,
the artificially created boy James-Michael Starling, whom Omega sought
to protect from the Protar.

While on Earth, Omega was employed for odd jobs by a New York City
pawn-broker, and had a number of battles with local beings. He battled
the Hulk, Electro, Blockbuster, and Nitro. While later
embroiled in a rematch with Blockbuster, the second Foolkiller saved
Omega's life by murdering Blockbuster.

Omega was finally shot dead in Las Vegas by the Las Vegas Police while
battling Ruby Thursday; the police thought Omega was assaulting
Ruby. James-Michael Starling, who had inherited Omega's power,
learned the true origin of himself and Omega but refused to accept the
truth. He threatened to use the power of Earth's biosphere against the
Defenders. Seeing the error of his decision, he committed suicide when
he turned the power inward and self-destructed.


Powers and abilities

Omega was created through Protariana technology, and has superhuman
strength. He has limited psychokinetic abilities, and has a psionic
rapport with other Protar organic creations.

Omega was educated as a warrior on the planet Srenesk, trained in the
fighting skills of a Srenesk warrior. The extraterrestrial Sreneskian
endowed him with the ability to draw upon the psionic energy of the
biosphere to project energy bolts from his hands and fly. Using
biospheric energy beyond a certain level could result in global
destruction.


2007 series

[Cover of the first issue of the revamped Omega the Unknown,
illustrated by Farel Dalrymple.] In 2005, novelist Jonathan Lethem
announced that he was planning to revive the character of Omega the
Unknown, in collaboration with artist Farel Dalrymple, in a ten-issue
limited series to be published in 2006. Lethem was a childhood fan
of the first Omega series, and referenced the character in his 2003
novel The Fortress of Solitude. When asked about Omega's appeal,
Lethem stated,

After hearing of Lethem's plans to revive Omega, the character's
co-creator Steve Gerber expressed personal outrage over the use of the
character without his participation, though he and Mary Skrenes later
discussed the project with Lethem and admitted that he had "misjudged"
him. The first issue of the revamped Omega the Unknown was
published in October 2007, and  released another issue each month
until the tenth was published in July 2008. All ten issues have been
collected and reprinted in a single volume.

The series was nominated in the "Best Limited Series" and "Best
Lettering" categories in the 2009 Eisner Awards. An excerpt was
selected by Neil Gaiman to be anthologized in The Best American Comics
2010.


Collected editions

-   Omega: The Unknown Classic (collects Omega: The Unknown #1-10
    and Defenders #76-77, 224 pages, January 2006, ISBN 0-7851-2009-2)
-   Omega: The Unknown (collects Omega: The Unknown vol. 2 #1-10,
    240 pages, premiere harover, October 2008, ISBN 0-7851-3052-7)

