ORACLE is a fictional character in the  Universe.


Fictional character biography

Oracle is a long-time member and warrior serving in the Royal Elite of
the Shi'ar Imperial Guard. She is the Empire's premiere telepath,
capable of all the standard abilities demonstrated by other telepaths
(mind-reading, psychic attacks, mental control of others, etc.). She has
been romantically linked with both Gladiator and Starbolt.

Oracle joined in the Imperial Guardsmen's battle against the X-Men on
behalf of Emperor D'Ken, and was defeated by Wolverine. She later
fought Angel during the Shi'ar trial by combat over the life of
Phoenix.

Oracle was amongst those few Imperial Guard members who opposed the
treacherous Shi'ar High Council member Lord Samédàr who was aiding an
attempted coup of the Shi'ar throne by Deathbird. Even after many of the
Guard chose to side with Samédàr, Oracle (a.k.a. Sybil) remained
steadfast in her loyalty to then-Empress Lilandra. On a mission to find
Lilandra, Oracle joined the other Imperial Guardsmen, Nightcrawler, and
Kitty Pryde in battling Lord Samédàr's renegade Imperial Guardsmen.
Oracle was captured, but freed on Lilandra's command.

Oracle battled the Spaceknight Trapper, and then aided the other
Imperial Guard members, Rom, and the Spaceknights in combat against
Tyreseus. Oracle later joined in battle alongside the Imperial
Guardsmen against the Starjammers and Excalibur. Some time later, on
Deathbird's behalf, Oracle assisted the other Imperial Guardsmen in
battle against the X-Men and Starjammers. She was defeated by them, and
was captured by a War Skrull posing as Charles Xavier.

Oracle later took mental control of Rick Jones during the Kree-Shi'ar
War. With Electron and Tempest, she found and captured a key part of
the Kree psyche-magnetron. She psychically drained the Kree Captain
Atlas of strategic information, and then confronted but was unable to
control Quasar.

Oracle was one of the Imperial Guard members stationed on Earth for a
time.

Oracle was injured in battle with Vulcan, but survived the battle and
returned to active duty. Now serving Vulcan she seems to be the advisor
of Vulcan, since she is by his side during battle decisions. When Vulcan
decides to release five criminals captured by the Shi'ar over the years,
she objects, to this decision, but that only seemed to motivate Vulcan
more to use these five as an additional Imperial Guard, led by a female
Strontian, the same species as Gladiator.

Oracle is seen working closely with Captain America and the Avengers to
free worlds dominated by the genocidal 'Builders'.


Powers and abilities

Oracle has telepathic powers enabling her to read minds, to project her
thoughts into others' minds, to control the minds of others, and to stun
opponents with mental bolts.

Oracle is a fair hand-to-hand combatant, trained by the Shi'ar Imperial
Guard.

Imperial Guardsmen all wear small anti-gravity "flight patches" that
allow them to fly.


Inspiration

Several of the members of the Imperial Guard are at least partly based
on members of the  team Legion of Super-Heroes. Dave Cockrum
(co-creator of the Imperial Guard) also had a long run as artist on the
Legion. Oracle is based on LSH member Saturn Girl.


In other media

Television

-   Oracle made an appearance in the X-Men episodes "The Dark Phoenix"
    and "Fate of the Phoenix". She and the Imperial Guard had to fight
    the X-Men in order to determine the fate of Jean Grey after what the
    Phoenix Force did to some of the galaxies. In the episode "Beyond
    Good and Evil", Oracle was present when Deathbird attacked Lilandra
    alongside Apocalypse. However, Apocalypse simply wanted a
    distraction so he could kidnap Oracle.

