OYA (IDIE OKONKWO) is a fictional comic book superhero appearing in
books published by . The character first appeared in
Uncanny X-Men #528, in the third chapter of the "Five Lights"
storyline, and was created by Matt Fraction and Kieron Gillen. She is
one of the "Five Lights"—a group of mutants who manifested their
abilities after the events of "Second Coming".


Publication history

Oya first appeared in Uncanny X-Men as newly manifested mutant who is
deeply conflicted about her powers. Following her introduction, she,
along with Hope Summers, Velocidad, Transonic, Zero, and Primal, began
to feature in the series Generation Hope. She made appearances in
Uncanny X-Men and is currently featured in Wolverine and the X-Men.


Fictional character biography

The Third Light

Idie is a fourteen-year-old girl from Cross River State, Nigeria when
her powers manifest. The first manifestation of her powers causes her
village to burn down, and when she starts to freeze things as well, she
is considered by the locals to be a witch. By the time Storm and Hope
arrive, Idie's family and friends have been killed. Hope stabilizes
Idie's powers, and Idie uses her new abilities to drive away the
paramilitary group that was attempting to kill her.

From her introduction, Idie is shown to have deep religious reservations
with respect to her status as a mutant. She has viewed herself as a
"monster" and has wished her mutation was as obvious as Laurie's, so
that her "sin" would be just as obvious. When deciding not to be
called "The Girl Who Wouldn't Burn," Idie describes herself as "a witch
child," "a blasphemy," and "a heretic." She states that if she cannot
burn in this world, she will burn in the next. She later tells
Wolverine that she has made peace with the fact that she is a
monster.

Schism

As he returns from an obviously tiring mission, Wolverine encounters
Hope and the Lights, including Oya, awaiting his return so they can
start Combat Training class. Wolverine cancels the class he had no
knowledge of, and instead asks them if they should not be doing
something more age appropriate; specifically, he asks Oya if she had a
doll or something to go play with. Oya states that she had a doll, but
it was destroyed when her village people came to kill her. Later,
Wolverine solicits Shadowcat to retrieve a new doll for Oya, which he
gives while they share some ice cream.

Oya is one of the X-Men to attend the opening of a Mutant History
Museum, a group that includes several adult and younger mutants. When
the Museum is attacked by the new Hellfire Club, most of the X-Men are
quickly defeated as Oya hides. Both Wolverine and Cyclops rush towards
the museum, but the Hellfire grunts begin setting up a bomb within the
museum. To Wolverine's protest, Cyclops gives Oya the go ahead to do
anything she thinks necessary, and Oya "murders" most of the Hellfire
grunts. Outside the museum, she is comforted by Hope and the other
Lights, but Oya simply wants to return to Utopia to get some sleep.

Oya doesn't have any remorse for killing the Hellfire grunts. She tells
Wolverine, that once you accept being a monster, being a murderer isn't
so bad. Laurie is furious at Hope for letting her be part of the
Sentinel battle on Utopia. She went as far as to point a gun at Hope.
Hope realizes that she didn't do a good job taking care of her. She
tells Wolverine to take Oya with her to the new school which will be The
Jean Grey Academy, and take better care of her than she could. Oya and
Hope share a heart-felt good bye. When Wolverine and his new crew of
teachers and students land in Westchester, Oya asks Wolverine if she is
responsible for breaking up the X-Men, Wolverine replies: "No, darlin'.
You led us home."

Regenesis

Oya is no longer part of Generation Hope and she is now part of the
Wolverine and the X-Men. During a visit from Deathlok to the Jean Grey
School of Higher Learning, it is suggested that Idie has a high
probability of eventually becoming leader of the X-Men.


Powers and abilities

Idie has the power of temperature manipulation. This power allows her to
move heat from one area to another, producing various effects. She is
consistently able to move enough heat to create fire in one area and ice
in another. To date, Idie's use of her powers has only been limited
by the amount of heat available to her in a given area. While she
often creates fire as she creates ice, this is not a necessity. Idie can
create ice by absorbing heat into herself without releasing it as
fire.

While using her powers, one of Idie's eyes glows orange while the other
glows blue.

