PALADIN is a fictional character, a mercenary appearing in American
comic books published by . While he claims that Paladin is
his real name, he often goes by the name PAUL DENNING (an obvious play
on his nom de guerre). Though not precisely a supervillain, his
mercenary activities often bring him into conflict with superheroes.


Publication history

Paladin first appeared in Daredevil (Vol. 1) #150 (January 1978). The
character had a one-shot story published in  Premiere #43
(August 1978), and was a billed guest star in the Spider-Man team-up
title  Team-Up (Vol. 1) #108 (August 1981).

From there on, Paladin has mostly appeared as a guest star across the
 Universe, with occasional forays as a superteam member, in
Silver Sable and the Wild Pack, Heroes for Hire and Thunderbolts,
and occasional feature appearances in the  Presents
anthology.


Fictional character biography

Paladin is a mercenary and private investigator, whose past is largely
unrevealed. When first seen, he sought Daredevil while engaged in an
assignment to track down the Purple Man, and battled Daredevil. He
clashed with Daredevil a second time after the crime fighter
inadvertently interfered with Paladin's search for the Purple Man.
Paladin allied with Daredevil in battle against the Cobra, the Jester,
and Mister Hyde, who were under control of the Purple Man.

Paladin next battled the Phantasm. Paladin aided the Wasp against
Baron Brimstone, acquired a modified uniform, and began a romance with
the Wasp. Paladin aided the Avengers in battle against the Masters of
Evil IV. Paladin allied with Spider-Man and the Wasp against
mobsters; despite respecting Spider-Man's abilities, Paladin is
incredulous that Spider-Man offers his heroic services without charge
(Paladin literally laughs in Spider-Man's face upon learning this),
while Spider-Man in turn is disgusted by Paladin's mercenary ways.
Paladin also considers Spider-Man's incessant battle banter
"unprofessional."

Paladin was later employed by Silver Sable to investigate a conspiracy
which threatened her native country of Symkaria, and he allied with
Spider-Man. Paladin was then hired by Diamondback to raid Serpent
Society headquarters. He was captured, but freed by Captain America.
Paladin accompanied Captain America in his search for Diamondback, the
Asp, and Black Mamba. With his new allies, Paladin battled Superia's
horde of female superhumans.

An unabashed womanizer, Paladin will often flirt with any woman who
catches his eye. He briefly dated the Wasp at a time when she was
separated from Hank Pym, much to the Black Knight's jealousy, who was
also attracted to her. For a time, he also enlisted Generation X into
helping him retrieve a sword for Adrienne Frost, the sister of current
X-Men member Emma Frost. During this period, the mutant known as Jubilee
was strongly attracted to Paladin, but that affection disappeared when
Generation X and Paladin later went their separate ways. He has also
been a longtime ally to Silver Sable and her Wild Pack organization,
working for pay, of course. He once helped them protect a scientist from
a kidnapping attempt by the Heroes for Hire, a group he would later
join. His main opponent was Misty Knight, who seemed to be an equal
match.

Paladin has a certain amount of honor. For example, he was once hired by
a corrupt government to assist rebels as part of a sting operation. He
aided the rebels in a bomb-laying operation at a government facility.
When the rebels were caught, his government handler remarked how lucky
they were that the bomb had not gone off. Paladin replied, "I'm sorry,
that would have been extra," and activated the bomb by remote control
while driving away.

In the 1990 one-shot The Punisher: No Escape, he was offered 10
million dollars by mobster Vincent Mangano to kill The Punisher.
Paladin agreed to this arrangement, but did not succeed, and in the
ensuing fight both of his legs were broken by the U.S. Agent.

Paladin once took down Daredevil with a sniper rifle from a helicopter
at a great distance. He did so for the FBI, in exchange for getting his
record expunged. The hit, while serious, was not fatal; Paladin's sniper
attack led to Daredevil's arrest.

Paladin was a main character in the 2006 Heroes for Hire series,
although as Misty Knight said he was just there for the money. As it
turns out, he was a traitor to the group, only using the Heroes as a
means to hunt down Captain America for S.H.I.E.L.D. as part of the Civil
War.

He single handedly defeated Captain America and the entire Heroes for
Hire team, with the exceptions of Tarantula, and Orka, who weren't
present when the fight took place, with a special gas weapon that
affected the nervous system. He then radioed S.H.I.E.L.D. and told them
he had Captain America in custody. However, he did not account for
Shang-Chi's ability to hold his breath over an extended period (thanks
to his martial arts training) and was overpowered by him. Shang-Chi then
aided Captain America. Captain America switched costumes with Paladin so
S.H.I.E.L.D. took Paladin into custody in his place.

During the Dark Reign storyline, Paladin is a member of the
post-Secret Invasion Thunderbolts. Now under the direct control of
Norman Osborn, the Thunderbolts serve as his personal black ops
team. Hired to assassinate the H.A.M.M.E.R. prisoner Elektra for 82
million dollars, Paladin broke into H.A.M.M.E.R. headquarters. However
Elektra overpowered him by choking him with one of her teeth that was
loosened when Paladin punched her. Begging for his life, Paladin gave
Elektra the key to escape her prison.

During the Siege of Asgard, Paladin and the other Thunderbolts are sent
to Asgard with the mission of stealing the Spear of Odin for Osborn.
After fighting through a contingent of Asgardians, they manage to find
it. Paladin, finally having had enough of serving a madman like Osborn,
turns on his teammates and tries to take back the Spear. After being
attacked by fellow Thunderbolt, Grizzly, Paladin is saved by Ant-Man.
Grizzly then loses the Spear to Mr. X, who is in turn easily defeated by
Quicksilver. Ant-Man recovers the Spear and gives it to Paladin, who
decides to take the Spear in order to keep Osborn from using its power
for his own ends. Paladin then departs from Asgard after saying goodbye
to Ant-Man.

During the Shadowland storyline, Paladin is paired with Silver Sable,
Misty Knight, and Shroud when Daredevil's Hand ninjas end up targeting
members of the mafia. Following this, Misty Knight reopens Heroes
for Hire under the influence of Puppet Master; Paladin joins the team
and soon realizes this and frees Misty from Puppet Master's control with
the help from Iron Fist. After the defeat of Puppet Master, Paladin
convinces Misty to keep operation open, but under their terms.


Powers and abilities

Paladin's physical strength, speed, stamina, agility, reflexes, and
durability are all slightly superhuman. He is also a highly skilled
hand-to-hand combatant, with knowledge of boxing, and some Judo and Tae
Kwon Do. In addition, Paladin is a skilled marksman, actor, espionage
agent, bodyguard and detective.

While he has been written using lethal force, his preferred weapon is
his stun gun, which fires a beam which scrambles the signals within the
target's nervous system sufficiently to render most people unconscious.
The range and effectiveness are unknown. The gun is equipped so that
only Paladin may operate it.

Paladin wears a body-suit of synthetic stretch fabric, and his boots,
gloves, helmet, torso, and knee and elbow guards are made of bulletproof
composite materials. Paladin's helmet is equipped with a belt activated
faceplate which slides down to make the helmet airtight, and has its own
one-hour air supply. The lenses in Paladin's helmet can be adjusted for
infrared vision.


Other versions

Ultimate 

For a period of time, Marc Spector used the Paladin name while working
for the Roxxon Corporation.


In other media

Video games

-   Paladin appears in : Avengers Alliance 2.

Motion comics

-   Paladin appears in the Spider-Woman motion comics. In this series,
    he is voiced by David J. Murphy.

