HOLLOW (formerly called PENANCE) is an apparently mindless body which
three members of the St Croix family, all members of the 
superhero team Generation X, had been trapped in at some time. The body
possesses red diamond-like skin and rarely speaks.


Publication history

Penance first appeared in Generation X #1 (November, 1994), and was
created by Scott Lobdell and Chris Bachalo.

Hollow appeared as a supporting character in Avengers Academy
beginning with issue #21 (Jan 2012), making occasional appearances
throughout the series.


Fictional character biography

Penance/Generation-X Early years

Monet St. Croix is the sister of Marius, Claudette, and Nicole St.
Croix. When her brother Marius, who would later become the mutant
Emplate, first manifests his powers, the conceited Monet often verbally
abused him. An enraged Emplate transforms her body into a hardened,
spiked, red state and left her mute. He then tells her to "consider this
your penance". Claudette, realizing how dangerous their brother is
becoming, banishes him to his own pocket dimension, but he convinces
Monet to accompany him, as only he can restore her true form. Nicole and
Claudette, knowing Monet was their parents' favorite, decide to merge
into one body with the appearance of Monet (see Monet-twins).

Shortly after the formation of the mutant teen team Generation X, the
red-skinned Monet is dropped onto the front lawn of the Massachusetts
Academy by Gateway, who speaks the single word: "Penance," which is
taken by witnesses to be her name. She is brought inside by headmaster
Banshee, who discovers her powers as he cuts his hands by trying to pick
her up As Penance cannot speak, understand English (apparently), and
with an immunity to telepathy, Banshee places her in the infirmary as
Banshee and Emma Frost attempt to discover her identity. Teen member M,
her relation to Penance unknown, tells the adults that Penance was
perhaps a prisoner of Emplate, whom the group had encountered
previously and known only as a parasitic mutant who fed upon other
mutants.

As the team leaves, Penance awakens with one thought on her mind:
survival. Perceiving the infirmary as a cell, she escapes, tearing the
room apart in the process. Hearing the alarms of a breach, the team
rushes to the infirmary and is amazed at the damage she caused. The team
splits up to find her before she can cause further damage to the
Academy. Team member Chamber, feeling a kindred spirit due to his own
mutilated body, leaves the group to search for her alone. Feeling that
another deformed soul would seek him out, he waited for her arrival.
After Penance fights her way past the rest of the team (Husk, Synch,
Jubilee, and M), she approaches Chamber, who talks telepathically to her
in an attempt to convince her that he knows how she feels and eventually
calms the girl down into staying with the team.

During her stay at the Academy, she would rarely interact with her
peers, due to her animalistic nature from years of torture at Emplate's
hands, and fear of being captured again. Fortunately, perhaps due to
Jubilee's time with the feral mutant Wolverine, she becomes a friend to
Penance, giving her the nickname "Penny". Gradually beginning to trust
her friends more, Penance begins to go on missions with and assist her
teammates. However, while swimming with Jubilee one day, Penance
suddenly has what resembles a seizure, falling into a mysterious coma
that makes Jubilee and the others realize how little they truly know
about her. Penance later recovers, off-panel, without explanation
shortly after an attack by Omega Red.

Emplate later returns to reclaim Penance, and while she is captured with
the rest of Generation X, her allegiance is momentarily unclear.
Curiously enough, it is during these events that Emplate reveals he is
Monet's older brother, also implying that he now realizes the twins are
posing as Monet. He refers to Penance for the first time as "Yvette",
although this name would eventually be retconned. Penance eventually
sides with Generation X and attacks Emplate, leading to his retreat.

The second Penance

During the events of Operation: Zero Tolerance, Generation X is attacked
by Prime Sentinels in Skin's hometown of east Los Angeles. During the
battle, Monet urges Synch to synch with her invulnerability to ensure
his survival. In the process, he realizes that she is actually two
girls, shortly before they are buried under debris. Synch rescues her,
only to discover that his teammate has now split back into the
unconscious forms of Nicole and Claudette.

The mystery of the twins and Monet would remain unsolved until Emplate
again returned, this time working with Chimera and seeking to claim the
twins. The twins recover during the battle, joining to become Monet
again, and then joining with Emplate against his will to become
M-Plate, an entirely new being with plans of its own: namely, to
journey to the Citadel of the Universal Amalgamator and force Synch to
synch with the Guardian there, thereby combining all life into a single
consciousness. Generation X prevents this, thanks largely to unlikely
ally Dirtnap, who not only swallows M-Plate whole, but soon after
explodes, restoring Emplate and the twins to their separate bodies.
However, during their time as one entity, their secrets were exposed to
each other, and the twins now know what truly happened to Monet. Synch
is later seriously injured by two bullies, and while recovering in the
hospital, he accidentally synchs with the twins, learning the truth
about the twins and Monet in the process. He urges Nicole to reveal the
truth to the team, which she does. But in an effort to "make things
right", the twins merge once more into the form of Monet and swap places
with Penance, freeing the real Monet at last, with the merged twins
taking over as Penance's body.

Monet continues to operate under the twins' original codename of M,
while the twins retain the identity of Penance. Both remain a part of
the Generation X team, while still trying to somehow cure the still mute
Penance. Notably, Penance becomes far more expressive during this
period, and begins wearing everyday clothing over the black restraints
she had worn since her creation. Later, an explosion frees the twins
from the Penance body, but the body would continue to function as though
a mind is still inside it.

When the twins leave for their home, they take the now-empty Penance
body with them, along with the young mutants Artie Maddicks and
Leech.

The Loners

After Ricochet breaks into a building holding women being used to
harvest Mutant Growth Hormone. There he meets an assassin named Delilah.
During the fight, one of Ricochets discs break open a chamber and
Penance emerges. At first confused as to where she is, Penance tries
to convince Ricochet that she isn't a threat, though he is forced to
avoid her claws. Lightspeed (following Ricochet out of concern) lands
between the two and uses her Kymellian powers to mesmerize Penance, but
when she places her hand on Penance's shoulder, she stabs Lightspeed
through her shoulders. Later, Penance encounters the rest of the group
at the hospital where Julie is recovering. It is then she senses a
kindred spirit in Phil Urich. She is followed by the ones intent on
imprisoning her, including a mysterious woman named Fuyumi Fujikawa who
calls her "Hollow". Mickey Musashi's makes a deal with the woman that
allows Hollow to remain with the group, and which allows her to stay at
Phil's residence.

While Phil is in the kitchen washing dishes. She is woken up by the
sound of him smashing plates when he hallucinates an image of himself as
the Green Goblin, kissing her, and tries to comfort him. After an
attack by Nekra, Penance witness Phil become irrational when he sees
Chris and Mickey share a celebratory kiss after attack. Later, she
follows Phil to Mickey's apartment. After Phil steals the Darkhawk
amulet, Hollow joins the other Loners in the battle between Phil, who is
wearing the Darkhawk armor and Chris, who managed to summon his second
Darkhawk armor. After the fight, she joins the defeated Phil who leaves
the group.

It is still unknown who is inside the armor.

Utopia

Monet St. Croix is mentioned when her brother Emplate attacks Utopia,
under her former codename.

Avengers Academy

Penance/Hollow (along with most of the members from the Loners) was seen
among the new students attending the Avengers Academy.


Publication history

The original creative team behind Generation X, Scott Lobdell and
Chris Bachalo, intended Penance to be a girl called Yvette from
Yugoslavia. This was never directly revealed in the comic and links
to Monet St. Croix were made by the subsequent creative team.


Powers and abilities

The powers of the different hosts/prisoners of the Penance form vary,
but the hollow Penance form's powers are red diamond-hard skin and
extended super-long razor-sharp claws on their fingers, toes, and hair
follicles. Because of the density of the skin, it is quite durable, as
well as resistant to psychic intrusion.


In other media

Film

-   In X2: X-Men United, Penance's name appears on a file while
    Mystique is going through the files on William Stryker's computer.

