VIRGINIA "PEPPER" POTTS is a fictional supporting character and romantic
love interest appearing in books published by , in
particular those featuring Iron Man. Created by writer Stan Lee and
artist Don Heck, she first appeared in Tales of Suspense #45
(September 1963).

In 2007, she joined the Fifty State Initiative under the codename HERA.
In 2009, after being given her own suit of armor by Tony Stark, she
assumes the identity of RESCUE, which lasted until the 2012
storyline "The Future".

The character is portrayed by Gwyneth Paltrow in the films Iron Man,
Iron Man 2, The Avengers and Iron Man 3.


Fictional character biography

Virginia "Pepper" Potts first appeared in Tales of Suspense #45
(September 1963), which was written by Stan Lee and illustrated by Don
Heck. Though she was named Pepper Potts from the start, Stark addresses
her as "Kitty" in one panel, which is thought to be a typo. Heck modeled
Potts as Ann B. Davis’ character of Schultzy from The Bob Cummings
Show, and is rendered with brown hair done up in a hairdo similar to
that of Schultzy's. Someone on the creative team or in editorial came to
feel that the resemblance was too great, and in Tales of Suspense #50,
Potts' look was altered to give her red hair and a different hairdo.
Potts is originally a member of a secretarial pool, and gets her job by
fixing an accounting error made by Stark. She is depicted initially as
being infatuated with Stark, and rejects the advances of Stark's
chauffeur and assistant Happy Hogan, who debuted in the same issue, with
acerbic remarks. As Stark's affection for her grows in the ensuing
issues, she becomes part of a love triangle between the two men, and
eventually falls in love with and marries Hogan, eloping with him in
Tales of Suspense #91.

[Pepper and Happy Hogan.] Pepper and Happy eventually leave Stark
Industries, settling in the Rocky Mountains and then finally in
Cleveland, where they adopt children after being unable to conceive, and
disappear from the main Iron Man storyline. After being kidnapped by
Stark's rival Obadiah Stane, Pepper tells Tony to stay out of their
lives. Pepper and Happy soon divorce after she has an affair with a
former college boyfriend. After Tony Stark's return from the Heroes
Reborn universe, Pepper and Happy join Tony at his new company, Stark
Solutions, and once again become core characters. After some time, Happy
and Pepper once again became involved and remarry, eventually
considering conceiving a child to supplement their adopted children.
Stark entrusts Pepper with a special remote that could shut him down.
However, Pepper, tortured by the responsibility, is forced to return it,
and the trauma causes her to miscarry. Stark is able to deal with the
remote, but feels guilty that he has placed her in such danger.

After Happy sustains massive injuries in a fight with Spymaster during
the 2006-2007 "Civil War" storyline, Pepper requests that Tony turn off
Happy's life support (using his Extremis abilities). The final pages of
Invincible Iron Man (vol. 4) #14 shows the death of Happy; it is
implied Tony complied with Pepper's request.

The Order

After the events of the "Civil War" story line, Pepper joins the Fifty
State Initiative as a member of The Order, a government sanctioned
superhero team operating within California. She assumes the moniker of
the Greek goddess HERA, and uses advanced computer-hardware and
prosthetics to monitor and coordinate the team's missions. Upon the
absorption of The Order into the Initiative, Tony Stark offers her a job
on the special-projects team at Stark Enterprises, which she accepts.

2008 - present

[Pepper as Rescue] Pepper Potts resumes her activities as personal
secretary of Tony Stark. When Pepper is caught in a terrorist explosion
caused by Ezekiel "Zeke" Stane, she sustains multiple internal injuries,
including shrapnel wounds, and rendered unable to withstand a prolonged
surgery. In response, Tony embeds a strong magnet (similar in appearance
to the arc reactor of the movie) in her chest, essentially turning
Pepper into a cyborg dependent on keeping her chest magnet engaged to
stay alive, as he was once.

Pepper's body is further enhanced with new cybernetics and upgrades to
the magnet, which are based on Danny Rand's battery designs, and which
afford Pepper new super abilities.

When Tony is blamed for the Skrull invasion of Earth that occurs in the
2008 storyline "Secret Invasion", S.H.I.E.L.D. is taken over by Norman
Osborn, replaced with H.A.M.M.E.R., and Stark and Maria Hill are fired,
along with all of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s employees. Tony realizes that Osborn is
after the identities of superhumans that registered with the government
following the passage of the Superhuman Registration Act that occurred
during the "Civil War" storyline, which is stored in a database in his
brain. Stark decides to go underground with Hill, and to wipe the
knowledge in his own brain. Stark makes Pepper the new CEO of Stark
Industries, trusting only her to shut down the company in his absence.
Pepper discovers a secret room in Stark's office which contains a suit
of armor that he made especially for her, which she uses under the
name RESCUE. Though Osborn has seized all Stark Industries facilities
and equipment, Pepper states that all components of her armor are legal
and that the design specifications are available to anyone. Despite
Osborn threatening her loved ones with prison if she interferes with his
search for Tony or attempts any more heroic actions, after being freed
she endeavors to find Tony herself. They are reunited in Russia,
and consummate a now-sexual relationship, but are subsequently captured
and tortured by Madame Masque, who was assigned by Norman Osborn to
track Stark down. Stark admits that he had loved Masque in the past,
but when pressed to make a choice, with his own life on the line, Tony
chooses Pepper. Pepper decides to engage Masque in a physical
altercation in order to provide a distraction for Stark to escape.

During the 2009 "World's Most Wanted Storyline" (which ran concurrently
with 's company-wide storyline "Dark Reign"), Pepper, after
defeating Masque, disguises herself as the former, infiltrating
H.A.M.M.E.R. while presenting the Rescue armor to Osborn as spoils of
battle. Pepper reveals herself when she rescues Black Widow and Maria
Hill from Osborn's imprisonment, while the Rescue suit uploads a virus
into H.A.M.M.E.R.'s computers, taking control of the Helicarrier's
armory of suits. They then retrieve the hard drive that Hill was
assigned by Stark to get, escaping to give it to Captain America in
order to restore Starks' mind. As part of "re-booting" Tony (in a
vegetative state), the magnet in her chest is removed and placed into
his.

Though Stark's memories are restored from a somewhat years-old backup,
he no longer remembers the events of the "Civil War" nor his role in it,
its aftermath or his affair with Pepper. Pepper survives the removal of
her chest magnet, but demands that a new one similar to Tony's own chest
repulsor be re-installed, which is done. Recovered, Stark also gifts
Pepper with a new Rescue armor, complete with JARVIS.

During the 2011 "Stark Resilient" storyline, when Justine Hammer and her
daughter Sasha Hammer use their own armored enforcer Detroit Steel to
attempt to sabotage Stark Resilient (Tony's new company) and its design
for a repulsor technology-powered vehicle, Pepper joins War Machine in
helping Stark, during which Pepper experiences a near-death experience
in which JARVIS, masquerading as Happy, gives Pepper a cryptic warning
of the future.

In the 2012 storyline "The Future", Pepper returns to her civilian life
following her destruction of J.A.R.V.I.S., the artificial intelligence
that helped her control her Rescue armor, after its compromise led
it to go rogue and attempt to kidnap her. She became engaged to Marc
Kumar, a public relations and marketing consultant, but broke off the
relationship after he briefly became a supervillain.

After Tony undergoes a moral inversion following a confrontation with
the psychic Red Skull, Pepper attempts to oppose his efforts to release
Extremis on a large scale with the aid of an A.I. back-up of Tony's
mind he created eight years ago in the event of his mind being attacked
in such a manner. Although the A.I. concludes that Tony's mind is
irreversibly twisted, and is subsequently destroyed by Tony, Pepper is
able to destroy his reputation by broaasting his plans to the rest of
the world, proclaiming that any attempts he makes to create his 'perfect
world' will have to be carried out with people fully aware that he is
now nothing but a monster.


Powers and abilities

The Stark-tech mag-field generator implanted in Pepper’s chest was not
weapons-based like Stark's, but borrowed non-weaponized electromagnetic
technology from Rand Industries, which caused a number of physical
changes to her body. It cured her tinnitus, improving her hearing. It
allows her to sense electromagentic fields, and manipulate them to
levitate her body.

Potts' Stark-tech armor suit, which is designated Mark 1616, but
named RESCUE by Potts, represents a hybrid of repulsor technology
and portable electromagnetic super-field generators that give the suit
flight, speed, strength, and magnetic-field manipulation. Its
electromagentic force fields are powerful enough to enable Rescue to
stop a falling jet airliner without physical contact with it, and
can also be used as an offensive weapon with other armored
opponents. The suit's physical strength enables it to hold up a
stilt mansion felled by an earthquake, and to rip the lower leg of
the Black armor. The armor also features an artificial intelligence
named J.A.R.V.I.S. that acts as a guide for Potts. During the 2012
storyline "The Future", Potts and Carson Wyche come to suspect that
J.A.R.V.I.S. has been compromised, and when they attempt to troubleshoot
the Rescue helmet, J.A.R.V.I.S. takes control of the Rescue armor, and
takes Potts and Wyche hostage. J.A.R.V.I.S. is disabled by James
Rhodes with a source-focused electromagnetic pulse from the Black
armor, and is eventually destroyed by Potts, ending her career as
Rescue. She has a new Rescue armor in the subsequent series,
Superior Iron Man, armed with sonic disruptors.


Other versions

-   In the Amalgam Comics Universe, ' Green Lantern and
    's Iron Man are combined to create Iron Lantern. Iron
    Lantern is secretly Hal Stark, owner of Stark Aircraft, a developer
    of experimental aircraft. One of his test pilots is PEPPER FERRIS
    (an amalgamation of Pepper Potts and 's Carol Ferris). Like both
    her  and  counterparts, she is involved in a love triangle,
    this time with Stark and his chief mechanic Happy Kalmaku (an
    amalgamation of 's Happy Hogan and 's Thomas Kalmaku). When
    Pepper comes in contact with a mysterious alien gem, she is
    transformed into Madame Sapphire (a combination of 's Madame
    Masque and 's Star Sapphire). Pepper Ferris first appeared in
    Iron Lantern #1 (April 1997), published jointly by  and .
-   In the alternate universe of the "Heroes Reborn" storyline, she and
    Iron Man are lovers, although she can also be seen in a relationship
    with Happy Hogan. Stark is forced to leave her unexpectedly and
    without explanation, as his very presence in the universe will
    endanger her life and the lives of everyone else.
-   She appears in the  Zombies universe in  Zombies
    Return, having just submitted her resignation to Stark, who at this
    point is a near-useless drunk. However, when the zombie Giant Man
    initiates an outbreak at Stark International, Pepper and Happy are
    among the zombified casualties. She is killed by Stark when he
    vomits a nanite-ridden formula upon her, which dissolves Pepper into
    a skeleton.
-   The Ultimate  version of the character can be seen during
    Ultimates 2. She and Happy (with whom she appears to be in
    a relationship) can be seen monitoring Tony when he uses the
    armor.
-   In The Invincible Iron Man #500, in a flashforward to an
    apocalyptic future 41 years ahead where the Mandarin has conquered
    the world, an aged version of Tony defeats his long-time foe with
    the help of his son Howard Anthony Stark and his granddaughter Ginny
    Stark, but Howard and Tony sacrifice themselves in the process. At
    the close of the story, Ginny buries the two next to a gravestone
    with the name VIRGINIA POTTS STARK. Howard is also said to be 41
    years old, suggesting that he will be born within the following
    year.


In other media

Television

[Pepper Potts as seen in Iron Man: Armored Adventures.]

-   Pepper Potts has appeared in the Invincible Iron Man segments of
    The  Super Heroes voiced by Peg Dixon.
-   Pepper Potts appears in Iron Man: Armored Adventures voiced by
    Anna Cummer. This incarnation's full name is PATRICIA "PEPPER"
    POTTS. Like Stark and Rhodes, she is a teenager, and is initially
    unaware of Iron Man's secret identity, though she later learns it
    after he saves her life. She eventually learns to use his
    armors, and as in the comics, is given one of her
    own called Rescue.
-   Pepper Potts appears in The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes
    voiced by Dawn Olivieri.
-   Pepper Potts has a few cameos in  Anime: Iron Man voiced by
    Hiroe Oka in the Japanese version and by Cindy Robinson in the
    English dub.
-   Pepper Potts appears in the Lego  Super Heroes: Maximum
    Overload mini-series voiced by Grey DeLisle.
-   Pepper Potts appears in  Disk Wars: The Avengers voiced by
    Fumie Mizusawa in the Japanese version.

Film

-   Pepper Potts is mentioned in Ultimate Avengers 2.
-   Pepper Potts appeared in The Invincible Iron Man voiced by Elisa
    Gabrielli with an apparent British accent.

[Gwyneth Paltrow as Pepper Potts in the 2008 film Iron Man.]

-   Gwyneth Paltrow portrays the character in the  Cinematic
    Universe:
    -   In Iron Man, Stark notes that Potts, his secretary/personal
        aide, is virtually the only real friend he has at the company.
    -   In Iron Man 2, Pepper is promoted to CEO of Stark Industries.
        She later attempts to resign after Tony finds a cure for the
        palladium poisoning that was killing him but he does not accept
        it. At the end of the film, Pepper becomes Tony's girlfriend
        and partner.
    -   In The Avengers, Potts is instrumental in helping with the
        development of Stark Tower, the new upgraded arc reactor, and
        Tony's assistance to S.H.I.E.L.D. She apparently got along with
        Agent Coulson, even knowing his first name.
    -   In Iron Man 3, Pepper is still the CEO of Stark Industries;
        the only difference is that she has moved in with Tony. During
        an attack on Stark's mansion, she dons the Iron Man suit (much
        as she did when she adopted the identity Rescue in the
        comics) to save herself and Maya Hansen. After being
        captured, Aldrich Killian uses her as a test subject for the
        Extremis process and thus as leverage to force Tony to complete
        the work to make Extremis stable. However, she turns the tables
        on Killian by using her Extremis powers and parts of an Iron Man
        suit to kill him. Tony is able to modify Extremis so that it is
        no longer a danger to herself or others.
    -   Pepper Potts does not appear in Avengers: Age of Ultron but is
        mentioned along with Jane Foster during a conversation involving
        Maria Hill (asking why they're not in the party), Thor and Tony
        Stark. Pepper is mentioned to still being the CEO of Stark
        Industries, by Tony saying "She runs the biggest tech
        conglomerate on Earth", which helps around the world. Any doubts
        about her romance with Tony are put to rest at the end of the
        film, after he mentions wanting to settle down in a peaceful,
        quiet place with her (having been inspired by Barton), implying
        that maybe he wants to marry her.
    -   Pepper is mentioned again in Captain America: Civil War
        (2016), where it is revealed that her and Tony have broken up.
-   Pepper Potts appears in Iron Man: Rise of Technovore voiced by
    Hiroe Oka in the Japanese version and by Kate Higgins in the English
    dub. In the film, she's taking vacation time on an island mansion
    Tony gave her as a gift for a past blunder. However, she's forced
    back to work when Tony begins investigating the mysterious
    technology that ruined the launch of his satellite and
    wounded Rhodey.

Video games

-   Pepper Potts is mentioned numerous times in the 2007 game Ultimate
    Alliance including one section in Stark Tower where Edwin Jarvis
    asks the player to fetch a pair of cufflinks which Pepper gifted to
    Tony Stark
-   Pepper Potts appears in the 2008 video game Iron Man and the 2010
    game Iron Man 2, voiced by Meredith Monroe. These games are based
    on the films of the same name.
-   Pepper Potts appears in the  Pinball video game, voiced by
    Tara Platt.
-   Rescue makes a cameo appearance in Strider Hiryu's ending in
    Ultimate  vs. Capcom 3 fighting against the Reavers.
-   Rescue is a playable character in  Super Hero Squad Online,
    voiced by Laura Bailey.
-   Rescue appears as an unlockable character in : Avengers
    Alliance.
-   Pepper Potts appears as a non-playable character in  Heroes,
    voiced by Brett Pels.
-   The character appears as a playable character both as Pepper Potts
    and Rescue in Lego  Super Heroes, voiced again by
    Laura Bailey.
-   Pepper Potts/Rescue appear in Lego 's Avengers voiced by
    Gwyneth Paltrow.
-   Pepper Potts/Rescue appear in  Avengers Academy initially as
    Nick Fury's assistant. On 20th March 2016, she is obtainable through
    limited time.

Theatre

-   Pepper Potts will appear in the  Universe: LIVE!_ stage
    show.

