LE PEREGRINE (ALAIN RACINE) is a fictional character appearing in
American comic books published by .


Fictional character biography

Alain Racine was born in Moulins, France. He is a writer by profession,
but is a superhero, adventurer, and mercenary, using a falcon-like
costume with artificial wings giving him the ability to fly.

Peregrine was first seen in the Grandmaster's Contest of Champions
against Death for the life of the Collector. He was chosen to compete on
the Grandmaster's side, in the illustrious company of other heroes such
as Captain America, Captain Britain, Wolverine, Daredevil, She-Hulk, and
the Thing. He was pitted against another winged opponent, the Angel, but
the Angel's greater experience gave him the edge to defeat Le
Peregrine.

Later, back on Earth, Peregrine encountered Silver Sable, who invited
him to become her freelance operative in France. He assisted the archer
Hawkeye in destroying a nuclear warhead generator stolen by the Red
Skull, and freeing the Sandman—another of Silver Sable's operatives — in
the process. He accepted an assignment from Silver Sable
International to disable a surveillance station in the Persian Gulf. He
maneuvered the American navy into destroying the station, and blew up a
Stane International tanker. Later, Peregrine was compelled by Brain
Drain's psionic powers to battle Sasquatch, but was defeated by
Sasquatch.

During the superhero Civil War, Peregrine was protecting France's
borders from refugee U.S. superhumans fleeing the Superhuman
Registration Act. Likewise, he is seen protecting France alongside
Micromax from Kang's armies during the Kang War.

During the Fear Itself storyline, Peregrine flies Black Widow into
France when she is sent there on a mission by Captain Steve Rogers. When
Black Widow uncovers civilians taken hostage by Rapido in a cathedral,
she has Peregrine help free them while she deals with Rapido.


Name

The word "peregrine" does not mean "falcon" in French, making the name
"Le Peregrine" quite odd to a French reader (the word does exist in
French, though it is used to refer to the peregrine saltbush, or
Atriplex suberecta and not any species of birds); in French
translations of comics featuring the character, his name was changed to
"Le Faucon Pèlerin", meaning "The Peregrine Falcon".
Faucon-pérégrin does exist in French as an alternate name for the
bird, but is now infrequently used. Adding "Le" in front of Peregrine
does not make it French as Peregrine is not a French word. The proper
use should either be "The Peregrine" or "Le Pèlerin".


Powers and abilities

Peregrine is an athletic man with a gifted intelligence but possesses no
superhuman powers. He is a talented writer, and a master of savate
(French kick-boxing).

Peregrine wears a suit of synthetic stretch fabric that incorporates an
anti-gravity generator system which emits and controls anti-gravitons,
enabling him to counteract gravitational attraction. He wears
glider-wings that contain small hydrazine and nitrous oxide-fueled jet
turbines that afford propulsion. Using all this equipment allows
Peregrine to fly with a range of about before exhausting his fuel
supply. He wears goggles to protect his eyes while in flight, and
carries radar detection devices.

While working as part of the Wild Pack, Silver Sable International
supplied Peregrine with special weaponry including ammonium bromide gas
grenades (to induce unconsciousness), napalm bolas, taser darts,
thermite grenades, and an electromagnetic scrambler.

