PHANTOM EAGLE is the name used by two fictional aviator heroes appearing
in American comic books published by .


Publication history

The second Phantom Eagle was an unrelated World War I hero created by
writer Gary Friedrich and artist Herb Trimpe in  Super-Heroes
#16 (Sept. 1968).]]. As Trimpe described,  production
manager John Verpoorten "had been a classmate at SVA. When I got out of
the Air Force in October 1966, he worked in the production department at
. He said they were hiring freelance people, and I should come up
to the office and show my work to Sol Brodsky, who was [[Stan Lee|Stan
[Lee]'s]] right-hand man at the time. I said, 'Okay'. Later, while I was
in the photostat department, I did the Phantom Eagle freelance, the
first book I penciled. I think".

Trimpe in 2002 described the character's creation:

The character has made few appearances beyond his debut. The first was a
time travel story in The Incredible Hulk #135 (Jan. 1971). Next came a
flashback appearance in Ghost Rider #12 (June 1975), in which the
Phantom Eagle, as the cover proclaimed, was a real phantom. The
Invaders #7 (July 1976) retconned the character as a member of the
Freedom's Five, a newly created World War I team of costumed adventurers
never subsequently seen. The Phantom Eagle also appeared for two panels
in Thor Corps #3 (Nov. 1993), when the antagonist briefly alters
reality.

Ghost Rider #50 (Nov. 1980) contains a page of pinup art by Trimpe
that one historian speculates may have been an unused cover of issue
#12.


Fictional character biography

In 1914, Karl Kaufman was a skilled American pilot from Oshkosh,
Wisconsin, whose German parents had returned to their native country.
Kaufman had become an expert stunt-pilot and co-owner of a flying
circus, by 1917, when the United States entered World War I, and desired
to fight the Central Powers. Concealing his identity so as not to risk
reprisals against his parents, he devised a stylized aviator uniform
with darkened goggles and a cape, and joined the European conflict to
become an ace on the side of the Allies as a U.S. Army Air Corps test
pilot. In his first mission as Phantom Eagle, he successfully led a U.S.
fighter squadron against an experimental dirigible aircraft carrier with
which German forces attempted to invade New York; however, he witnessed
the death of his best friend, Rex Griffin, as a result. At one point
the time-traveling dictator Kang the Conqueror sent the simpleminded
brute the Hulk back to 1917 in an effort to secure a victory for
Germany, by preventing the Phantom Eagle from destroying a key German
super-weapon. Another time, a brief altering of reality saw the
Phantom Eagle's biplane pursued by modern jet fighters.

The Phantom Eagle went on to join the team of costumed adventurers known
as Freedom's Five, consisting of himself (the sole American), the
Crimson Cavalier, the Silver Squire, Sir Steel, and Union Jack.

Kaufman and his parents were later killed together near the end of the
war by German pilot Hermann von Reitberger, who strafed both the Phantom
Eagle and the two civilians with his machine guns as they fled from
Germany into Alsace, France. Swearing vengeance, the Phantom Eagle's
spirit haunted and hunted von Reitberger through the years until, after
a chance, modern-day encounter with the original Ghost Rider, he battled
the aged German in aerial combat. With von Reitberger's death, Kaufman's
vengeful spirit was allowed to pass on.


Powers and abilities

The Phantom Eagle was a normal man with no superhuman powers. He
possessed good hand-to-hand fighting skills, and was an expert
stunt-flyer and combat pilot. He customized his own World War I vintage
biplane.


Other versions

Counter-Earth Phantom Eagle

Another Phantom Eagle exists on Counter-Earth, located on the far side
of the sun. He is the counterpart of Nefarius, the Lloyd Blochs of
the main  Universe.

MAX

Writer Garth Ennis and penciller-inker Howard Chaykin produced an
alternate-reality version of the character in a World War I-set
miniseries, War is Hell: The First Flight of the Phantom Eagle #1–5
(May–Sept. 2008), published under 's mature-audience MAX
imprint.

This version of the Phantom Eagle reappears in a tie-in to 's 2015
Secret Wars event, starring in Where Monsters Dwell, a miniseries by
Garth Ennis and Russell Braun.


Other Phantom Eagles

An earlier Phantom Eagle was introduced by uncredited creators in
Fawcett Comics' Wow Comics #6 (July 1942). Following his debut, the
Golden Age Phantom Eagle appeared in every issue of Wow Comics in the
final issue, #69 (Aug. 1948) as a sidekick to Commando Yank. His primary
writer-artist was Marc Swayze.

