''

CHRISTIAN CORD codenamed RADIAN and later PHASER is a fictional mutant
character in the  Universe. His first appearance was in New
X-Men #135, created by Grant Morrison and Frank Quitely.


Fictional character biography

Radian is one of the many mutant teenagers that enrolls into the Xavier
Institute after the revelation to the public that Professor X is a
mutant. When Cassandra Nova makes her second attack on the school,
Radian and other students, even knowing how dangerous Nova was, want to
face her. Instead, they are put under her control and turned against
X-Men members Wolverine, Beast, and Xorn. Radian and the others are
freed soon after thanks to the intervention of the Stepford Cuckoos.

After the death of mutant fashion designer Jumbo Carnation, Radian joins
the Omega Gang. This group is led by fellow student Quentin Quire, who
is also known as Kid Omega. Radian and the Omega Gang participate in an
assault on a small group of human racists whom they believe responsible
for the death of Jumbo. They also attack a team of U-Men, isolationist
murderers who kill mutants for their powers.

The Omega Gang then cause a riot at the Xavier Institute during Open
Day, when the school was going to accept human students. During the
riot, Radian and other members of the gang confront several X-Men on the
mansion's front lawn. Radian is stopped by Cyclops, who breaks his leg
with his optic blasts. Afterwards, Radian, along with Redneck and
Tattoo, are sent to a jail, run by humans. Wolverine informs him that he
and the others would be sent overseas to do charity work after they
completed their jail time. Radian was one of many mutants that lost
their superhuman powers after the M-Day.

His powers become part of the being known as The Collective.

However, he appears to have been let out of jail, and then decided to
pay his debt in another way: by joining the newest incarnation of the
New Warriors. After being given new armor, he takes up the codename
Phaser, and began training with the team, which includes his sister
Tattoo. However, on one of the team's first missions out to stop the
Zodiac, she got too cocky when fighting Cancer, and was brutally killed
in front of the rest of the team. He is currently in mourning over her
death, and now has to deal with the deaths of Ripcord and Skybolt.


Powers and abilities

Before he was depowered on M-Day, Radian had the superhuman ability to
generate blinding flashes of ultraviolet light from his body. Radian
could control the intensity of these bursts, choosing to either blind or
burn his opponents.

As Phaser, Christian can generate intense bursts of energy from the
chest of his armor as well as deflect energy through specialized
gauntlets on his arms. All New Warriors have up to five powers so he may
have additional abilities yet to be shown on-panel.


Bibliography

-   X-Men vol. 2 #135-138
-   X-Men: The Last Stand novelization

