PHOBOS is the name of two fictional comic book characters appearing in
books published by  characters. The first appeared in Dr.
Strange, Sorcerer Supreme #32 (August 1991) in a story written by Roy
Thomas and Jean-Marc Lofficier.

The second and current Phobos first appeared in the 2006 Ares: God of
War mini-series (written by Michael Avon Oeming; art by Travel
Foreman). He is the son of Ares, step-brother to Hippolyta, and a member
of the Secret Warriors.

Due to the nature of gods in the  Universe, in addition to the
retcon surrounding the current Phobos (see below) the relationship
between the two has not been explicitly explained.


Original

Publication history

The original Phobos first appeared in the "A Gathering of Fear"
storyline in Dr. Strange, Sorcerer Supreme #32 (August 1991)
written by Roy Thomas and Jean-Marc Lofficier. He reappeared in "The
Great Fear" storyline in DS:SS #39 (March 1992).

Fictional biography

Phobos and his brother Deimos are sons of Ares and Nox (posing as Venus)
but were killed by Thor and Hercules in their first appearance. Later
the Fear Lords release so much fear that Nox is able to bring her sons
back, creating them from the Darkforce but they were eventually defeated
again. Phobos meets his final fate when Amatsu-Mikaboshi assaults
Olympus and kills him.


Alexander

Publication history

The current Phobos, Alexander, first appeared in the Ares limited
series in 2006 written by Michael Avon Oeming. Here, he is manipulated
by Amatsu-Mikaboshi into becoming a warrior until his father, Ares,
saves him many years later, a young adult with god-like powers. This
ending is ignored for future storyline purposes.

The character returns, retconned by Brian Michael Bendis and reduced to
a ten-year-old boy with no specialized training in Mighty Avengers #1,
then reappears in the Secret Invasion crossover, in Mighty Avengers
and the Secret Invasion limited series. Once Dark Reign started, he
began appearing regularly in Secret Warriors.

Fictional character biography

The current Phobos is a young boy named Alexander Aaron. In the 2006
Ares: God or War mini-series, Alexander is taken from his father,
Ares, by Zeus, and then kidnapped by the Japanese god Amatsu-Mikaboshi.
Mikaboshi, in an attempt to destroy the  pantheons, trains and
manipulates Alex for at least five Olympian years - which vary
substantially from human years in that years can pass to the gods while
simultaneously only a few days or months passing for humans - under the
guise of a mother-figure who eventually turns him into a deadly
swordsman. He is saved from the evil deity when the combination of Zeus
and Ares's influences broke his brainwashing. Their salvation apparently
eliminates his skills.

Brian Michael Bendis then ret-conned these events in Mighty Avengers.
When Alex / Phobos is first approached by fellow Secret Warrior Daisy,
he is once again a young boy, untrained, and aware that his father is
the god Ares (Mighty Avengers #13). (The general story of Mikaboshi
destroying the  pantheons and Zeus' sacrifice remains canon
however). It's at this point that Daisy reveals to Alex that he is
Phobos. After this, he begins to gain fear like powers, having
inherited the original's abilities. However, in Mighty Avengers #13 he
scared off a couple of boys, and after that he lied to Daisy that he
doesn't have any powers, but she doesn't believe him. After talk with
her he says 'that explains so much' because he realises then that he's
new Phobos, and was born mortal, but after drinking Mikaboshi's blood he
became god and now he has fear powers and Daisy told him who he really
is (new god of fear). In that issue Ares tells him that he's an Avenger
right now and he cannot worry about his grades.

During the Secret Invasion storyline, Alex is recruited by Nick Fury for
his team of Secret Warriors. Post-invasion, he remains a member of
the team and has shown evidence of additional pre-cognitive powers.
However, his father has noticed his absence upon receiving a truancy
notice. In the aftermath of Utopia, Ares followed Alex and Daisy to
one of Fury's base, where he discovers his son's affiliation with the
former S.H.I.E.L.D. director. Fury tells Ares that his son has
potential. Ares ultimately accepts his son's decision, meaning that he
doesn't need to hide his allegiance anymore. Phobos later pilots a
Fury Life Model Decoy to assist Black Widow and Songbird but they are
captured by the Thunderbolts. As soon as Norman Osborn shoots the LMD in
the head, Phobos reveals himself, inflicting Osborn with the fear that
he will lose his mind soon enough. During Siege, Phobos tried to tag
along with the other secret warriors to help the Asgardians, but Nick
Fury wouldn't let him, because he knew his father would die and he
didn't want him to witness it. When the fiasco was over, Thor confronted
Phobos telling him that Ares was dead and he offered to take him to see
his next of kin in Mount Olympus. However, he declined his offer. Thor
offered that if he ever changed his mind, he would take him there.
Although he had mixed feelings with his dad, he still felt sad that he
died.

Phobos is now in Elysium after having been stabbed and killed by Gorgon
wielding the sword Godkiller. His last appearance had his father proud
of his actions as they were reunited in the afterlife.


Powers and abilities

Both versions of Phobos control the power of fear, a power that has been
seen to cause victims to run for their lives as well as attack their
partners. Certain characters have proven immune to this ability (i.e.
Nick Fury, Gorgon) - citing they lack fear as the reason.

The current version of Phobos (Alex) was at one time a highly trained
swordsman and possessed strength and endurance similar to other Olympian
gods in the  universe, however this has since been
ret-conned. Secret Warriors #10 re-establishes his training with a
sword. He was denied use of it by his father Ares, who required him to
be proficient in all forms of arms before returning his sword.

Currently he, like the previous Phobos, can instill fear in others.
Additionally, he has shown evidence of pre-cognitive powers.

When utilizing his fear based powers, Alex's eyes glow. The color has
shown to vary between white and red. Whether this is simply due to the
artist's rendering or the level of power usage is unknown.


Relationship between the two characters

Currently, it is unclear whether the original Phobos and the current
Alex are actually two separate characters. Examining their respective
first appearances it would appear that they are, as both have distinct
personalities and ability sets. In fact, their father Ares even
explicitly states that both are separate individuals within the 2006
Ares: God of War mini-series.

However, this mini-series takes place before Brian Michael Bendis
retconned the origin and abilities of Alex. Within the mini-series Alex
had grown well into his late teens, had acquired a mastery of almost all
forms of weaponry, and was well aware of his divine heritage.
However, when Alex next appears in Mighty Avengers #13 he is barely
10, has no combat experience, and is aware that his father is the god
Ares. It is also in Mighty Avengers #13 that Alex is first identified
as Ares' son Phobos, and displays abilities similar to the original
version of the character. Thus, it would appear that Bendis
retconned the events of the mini-series and that Alex and Phobos are
potentially the same character.

Adding to the confusion, based on the events in The Incredible
Hercules #117 it seems that parts of the Ares: God of War mini-series
are, in fact, still considered canon. Namely, Mikaboshi's plot and
attempt to destroy the divine pantheons in the  Universe. Since
Alex's capture and development were central to Mikaboshi's plan, yet
also directly contradict his later appearances in Mighty Avengers and
Secret Warriors, the current status of both characters remains
unclear.

According to the Thor & Hercules: Encyclopaedia Mythologica, the
original Phobos and the current Alex are two separate characters. More
specifically, they are half-brothers. The Phobos profile indicates that
the original Phobos (and his brother Deimos) were killed during
Mikaboshi's invasion of Olympus, and that Alexander inherited the
fear-based powers of his slain older half-brother following his return
to Earth.

Dark Reign: New Nation #1 states the Ares: God of War limited series
as the first appearance of Alex. However, this does not indicate if he
is meant to be related to the previous Phobos, such as in a re-imagining
or reincarnation.


Notes

