PERCIVAL "PINKY" PINKERTON is a fictional character appearing in
American comic books published by . The character's first
appearance was in Sgt. Fury and his Howling Commandos vol. 1 #8 (July
1964), in which he replaced Jonathan Junior Juniper who was killed in
issue #4.


Fictional character biography

PERCIVAL "PINKY" PINKERTON was an English member of the original Howling
Commandos who fought alongside the team during World War II. A British
Army commando and gentleman ranker who used an umbrella as a weapon
along with his Thompson submachine gun, Pinkerton had served alongside
the unit commander Captain Samuel Happy Sam Sawyer prior to Pearl Harbor
when both were with the British Commandos.

Along with Col Timothy Dum Dum Dugan and Dino Manelli, he helped
organize the Deadly Dozen.

Though never explained in the series, Pinkerton wore a Carlist Requetés
type red beret with a yellow tassel with his Battle Dress that may have
involved service in the Spanish Civil War. Pinkerton also wore his
battle dress with an open collar with scarf rather than having the
buttoned collar of a British other rank.

In issue #23 ("The Man Who Failed") of Sgt. Fury and his Howling
Commandos, Percy’s older brother, Lieutenant Colonel Pinkerton
appeared. The story, set in Burma revealed that Pinkerton came from an
English family with a long tradition of service as officers to the
Crown. Why Pinkerton never accepted a commission was explained as his
living a playboy womanising life style during his initial military
training that led him to be unable to catch up with his studies and
resigning.

In the first Sgt Fury Annual taking place with the Howlers (Howling
Commandos) being recalled up to service in the Korean War, Pinkerton was
a sergeant as were all the other former private soldiers of the unit. At
the time of their 1966 Vietnam War mission (Annual #3, Sgt Fury and
his Howling Commandos) Pinkerton was managing a Playboy Club in London.

As with several other of the Howling Commandos, Pinkerton joined
S.H.I.E.L.D.. He was said to have died in London after a long battle
with cancer, with Dum Dum Dugan at his side.


Pinkerton and the Essex Regiment

Pinkerton wore Essex Regiment shoulder flashes on his battledress. The
battalion that Lt. Colonel Pinkerton led was referred to as the "Burma
Dragons". During the Burma Campaign the Essex Regiment were part of the
Chindits. A famous member of the regiment was Arthur Ernest Percival who
was commissioned into the regiment in 1916 and achieved fame as the
Regimental Intelligence Officer where the Irish Republican Army put a
price on his head. He later commanded the Imperial Garrison at
Singapore, surrendering his command to the Japanese in 1942.


Ancestry

Three ancestors of Percy were mentioned in Sgt. Fury and his Howling
Commandos. These include:

-   A Pinkerton who survived the winter at Valley Forge in 1777-1778
-   PINKERTON who fought in the battle of Waterloo in 1815.
-   An ancestor who fought during World War I.


Character basis

In a 2002 interview with the Traditional Values Coalition's executive
director Andrea Sheldon Lafferty about the latest incarnation of the
comic book character of the Rawhide Kid who was now homosexual, Stan Lee
said, "years ago [a comic book] that I did, Sgt Fury, ...had a gay
character. One member of the platoon was called, I think, Percy
Pinkerton. He was gay. We didn't make a big issue of it. In this comic
book that I read, the word gay wasn't even used. He's just a colorful
character who follows his own different drummer. He follows a different
beat. But we're not proselytizing for gayness". In a 2005 interview,
however, Lee stated that Pinkerton came off as being gay but that "it
wasn't purposely done that way".

In Sgt Fury #23 Pinkerton was portrayed as a playboy. Artist Dick
Ayers said in an interview that Stan Lee told him to base Pinkerton on
David Niven. This idea seems logical as one of the Howling Commandos,
Dino Manelli was based on Dean Martin who not only had a movie and later
television career, but had a former sidekick named Jerry Larkin based on
Jerry Lewis who was killed in issue #63. Martin had attracted praise for
his performance in the war film The Young Lions. Niven was familiar
from his role in The Guns of Navarone where he played a gentleman
ranker who refused to take responsibility. Another influence may have
been John Steed of The Avengers who always carried and frequently used
an umbrella in fight scenes. The time of Pinkerton's appearance in the
comic was during the British invasion that hit the United States in
1964, and  may have been trying to appeal to British readers of
its comics.

Sgt Fury also had an Australian soldier character in a few issues named
"Rolfe Harrison" though he resembled the actor Rod Taylor more than the
singer Rolf Harris. Harrison appeared in both "Sgt Fury" and Captain
Savage and his Leatherneck Raiders; he never joined any of the teams as
a regular character.


In other media

Television

-   Pinky Pinkerton appears in The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes
    episode "Meet Captain America". He is seen as a member of the
    Howling Commandos.
-   Pinky Pinkerton appears in the Agent Carter episode "The Iron
    Ceiling", portrayed by Richard Short. He is among the soldiers
    that assist Peggy Carter, Jack Thompson, and Dum Dum Dugan in
    raiding a Russian military complex that was selling stolen weapons
    to Leviathan.

