PIP THE TROLL is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by .


Publication history

Pip the Troll was introduced by Jim Starlin in Strange Tales vol 2
#179 (Feb 1975) to be a comic foil to the story's main protagonist, Adam
Warlock. Pip returned in Strange Tales vol 2 #180-181 (Mar-Apr 1975)
and Warlock vol 1 #9-12 (Oct 1975-Jan 1976) before his death in
Avengers Annual #7 (Mar 1977).

Starlin revived the character years later in Silver Surfer vol 3 #46
(Dec 1990). Pip played a role in the 1991 Infinity Gauntlet crossover
before joining the titular team of Warlock and the Infinity Watch in
issue two (Mar 1992). He appeared in the title until its cancellation in
1995 with issue 42. During its run, the character was also featured in
the Infinity War, Infinity Crusade, and Blood and Thunder
crossovers.

After a brief appearance in a back up feature in Cosmic Powers
Unlimited #4 (1996), the character was not seen again until 2002 when
Starlin used him in Infinity Abyss #1-6. He returned in : The
End #5-6 (2003) and Thanos #3-4 (2004), She-Hulk #12-13 (2005), and
X-Factor #207-213 (2010–2011).


Fictional character biography

Pip was once PRINCE GOFERN of the planet Laxidazia, in the Dolenz
System, in the Milky Way Galaxy. He was originally an alien of the
Laxidazian race who enjoyed painting pictures of the night sky. Pip
became physically and psychologically mutated into a morally degenerate,
stunted, satyr-like form known as a "troll" during a bout of drunkenness
brought on by a mutagenic hallucinogenic ale. Like all Laxidazian
trolls, Pip has four digits (including opposable thumb) on each hand,
hooflike feet, and large pointed ears; apparently, normal Laxidazians
are nearly identical to Earth humans. After his transformation, his
people, also sick of his lewd, lecherous, and hedonistic behavior, strip
him of his office and rank. He stows away on a spaceship and continues
his life of debauchery. Pip began his habit of dressing in a pair of
maroon, ripped pants and nothing else.

Missionaries from the Universal Church of Truth visit Pip's home planet
and discover the trolls are resistant to the church's conversion
process. As a result, all trolls are ordered to be killed. Pip himself
is caught after making trouble on dozens of planets, many controlled by
the church. He ends up on a ship full of men and women who were to be
executed. There he meets Adam Warlock, whose alternate future self the
Magus would become the leader of the Church of Truth. Pip teamed up with
Warlock to escape and go on adventures. Pip then meets the
green-skinned Gamora. Pip meets Thanos, and alongside Warlock,
Gamora, and Thanos, he battles the Magus and the Universal Church.
Pip revealed how he was transformed into a troll. He encounters Starfox
and Heater Delight, and battles Pro-Boscis the Procurer. Eventually
the threat of the Magus was neutralized and Pip parted company with Adam
on the world of Sirus X.

After getting into much more trouble, Pip decided to look for Adam
again. Pip explored one of Thanos' old hideouts and discovered not Adam,
but Thanos himself. Thanos destroyed Pip's mind, but Adam was able to
absorb Pip's soul into the Soul Gem (killing his mindless body, but
restoring full mental function to his soul), reuniting him with the
spirits of Gamora and eventually Adam Warlock in Soulworld within the
Soul Gem.

Pip resided in Soulworld for some time. While there, he accompanied the
Silver Surfer and Captain Autolycus in search of Warlock. He witnessed a
battle between Warlock and Drax the Destroyer.

Infinity Watch

Pip, Gamora, and Warlock return to the corporeal world during the
Infinity Gauntlet incident by taking over bodies of three crash victims.
Pip, in possession of the body of Ralph Bunker, and Gamora were both
shown to have significantly increased physical strength in their new
bodies. However, soon after returning to life, Gamora disappeared.
Alongside Warlock, Pip conferred with Doctor Strange, Rintrah, Doctor
Doom, and the Silver Surfer regarding Thanos and the Infinity
Gauntlet. Alongside Doctor Strange, Clea, and Rintrah, Pip battled
Silver Dagger. Alongside Rintrah, Pip time-traveled to Earth's
Jurassic era to rescue Firelord and Drax the Destroyer. Alongside
Warlock and Gamora, Pip visited Thanos after his defeat. With
Gamora, Pip summoned Doctor Strange to deal with the seemingly power-mad
Warlock, but was reconciled with Warlock.

Afterwards, Pip was given the Space Gem by Warlock, keeping it between
his toes for safekeeping. Pip joined Warlock's Infinity Watch. With
the Infinity Watch, Pip was captured by the Man Beast, but rescued by
Warlock. Pip and his friends end up setting shop on Monster
Island. Pip takes too much as usual and abusing the hospitality of
Mole Man. In a dispute over the sovereignty of the island, forces of the
United Nations invade. Pip and the others hang back as Gamora cleans
house, killing no one. The group makes bets on the fight.

Around this time, the events known as the Infinity War happen. When
Warlock had control of the Infinity Gauntlet, he had forced out the good
and evil sides of himself. The evil side returns as Warlock's long-term
adversary, the Magus. Pip is drawn into the fight when Thanos recruits
the Watch. As most of Earth's heroes do not trust Thanos, Pip and his
friends were forced to battle them as well. Eventually both sides work
together to take down the Magus.

Infinity Crusade

Pip became deeply involved in the Infinity Crusade. He manages to be a
capable 'leader' of the remnants of the Infinity Watch when various
events took most of them away. Moondragon, for example, is brainwashed
and taken by the Goddess, the 'good' side of Adam Warlock. She is using
a Cosmic Egg, the merging of several Cosmic Cubes, to implement her
plans, which involve brainwashing dozens of superheroes. Left on Monster
Island with Maxam and Drax the Destroyer, the three argue over who
should lead. Pip decides to go outside the group for help and kidnaps
Mister Fantastic. The leader of the Fantastic Four soon realizes what is
going on and pitches in to help. This, and the kidnapping of other
superheroes, brings everyone together, Pip included, at Avengers Mansion
and actually spurs on the heroic efforts of the rest of the
super-powered community. Pip is spurred to create a new, 'super-heroic'
costume, but he fails to wash himself while changing. His body odor is
so offensive the Hulk forcibly bathes him.

King of the Universe

Professor Xavier proceeds to make telepathic contact with one of the
Goddess' thralls, Pip's former ally, Moondragon. Pip secretly touches
Xavier and his powers make contact through the link, allowing him to
know the location of the Goddess because Moondragon knows it.

Pip teleports to it, in the center of the Goddess' planet, a new form of
Counter-Earth. By touching the Cosmic Egg, Pip gains access to its
near-infinite powers. He turns the Goddess into salt. He manifests a
throne and sits upon it, musing as to what to do with his newfound
powers. He reflects on many plans for Earth, such as making
super-powered beings wash his car and changing all the females,
including the overweight and elderly, into shapely, twenty-something
women. One of his goals is, of course, to gain revenge on the Hulk for
forcibly bathing him; however, he realizes none of this will make him
truly happy, and the decides on something that will: a simple birthday
party thrown for him by his friends. Before he can implement this, he is
subdued by the brainwashed guardian of the Egg, the female New Warriors
member Silhouette. She had been hiding in a nearby container, for just
this sort of situation.

After Infinity Watch

Although Pip has been seen rarely since the Infinity Watch disbanded, he
appears in : The End #5–6 and She-Hulk (2005 series) #12–13.
Pip also assisted Thanos in his first quest after his experience in
: The End in Thanos #1–6.

X-Factor Investigations

Pip is next seen when Hela, Norse goddess of death, appears in disguise
and hires X-Factor Investigations to find a missing pendant of Thor's
hammer. When Jamie Madrox and Banshee track it down and take it off of
the neck of a drunken bar patron, he reverts to Pip the Troll.
Without the pendant hiding him, Hela is able to track down Pip, whom she
captures. This angers X-Factor leader Madrox, who feels responsible,
and the team travels to Las Vegas and saves the troll with the help of
Thor. Pip follows X-Factor back to New York and joins the team,
serving as receptionist, out of gratitude for their actions; however, a
mysterious phone call Pip receives reveals that Pip has other,
as-yet-unknown reasons for joining the group.

It appeared Pip was killed by a woman he previously helped. The woman
shoots him in the head after claiming that "X-Factor will fall". The
injury was not fatal due to his non-human physique: Laxidazians's brains
are in their chest, next to the heart, as he explains later.


Powers and abilities

When in possession of the Space Gem, Pip could theoretically access
virtually incalculable powers, but chose to use it merely for
transportation and teleportation. The gem gave him the ability to
teleport to places he knows of. This he often used for his own ends,
stealing the Fantasticar and other objects. When forced into battle, he
tends to appear directly above his adversary's head, intending to
deliver a powerful blow. He has since lost the Space Gem, but his
long-term exposure to it has given him the innate ability to teleport.


In other media

Television

-   Pip the Troll appears in the Silver Surfer animated series voiced
    by Robert Bockstael. Pip is the close companion of Silver
    Surfer, whom he follows on his quest to find Surfer's treasured
    homeworld Zenn-La. Here he is one of a race of Trolls created to
    be the Kree's slave labor force.

Film

-   Pip makes a non-speaking cameo appearance in the animated
    direct-to-video film Planet Hulk.

