PIPELINE (CORMICK GRIMSHAW) is a fictional character, a mutant in the
 Universe. His first appearance was in Uncanny X-Men #235
(1988).


Fictional character biography

As a member of the Genoshan Press Gang, Pipeline was exempt from the
mutate process that his fellow mutants were subjected to, and served his
country faithfully. He participates in the raid that captures four of
the X-Men's charges. This takes place on the grounds of the X-Men
mansion, in Salem Center, New York, a violation of American sovereignty.
One of the prisoners, Warlock, did not survive subsequent imprisonment.
He also participates in a second raid on US soil, attacking an airport
in an attempt to get at Rene Majcomb.

After the fall of the Genoshan government, Pipeline fought in the
resulting civil war on the side of the Magistrates. According to claims
he made, he lost his home and family in this war.

Cable

During a raid on a mutate camp, he was captured by Cable and
telepathically forced to help. He, Cable, Domino, Jenny Ransome and
Phillip Moreau investigated clues to a new mutate facility, eventually
discovering that the otherdimensional Sugar Man was behind the mutate
process. He soon changed his loyalty, agreeing to work with the rebels
to bring peace to Genosha.

Later, when Magneto was ceded control of the island by the United
Nations, Pipeline was invited to stay and help his new ruler consolidate
his power. He accepted, but only so as to ensure that his country
flourishes once more.

With the genocide of the Genoshan population at the hands of Sentinels
commanded by Cassandra Nova, the twin sister of Professor Xavier,
Pipeline's fate is unknown. It is unknown if he retained or lost his
mutant powers during the M-Day.


Other versions

The alternate universe detailed in the series X-Men Forever diverges
from known history when Pipeline participates in a coup action against
Cameron Hodge. The Genegineer, desiring Storm as a weapon against Hodge,
has Pipeline replace her with a clone. This transfer is hidden during
the outpouring of energy when she grants Cyclops her powers back.
Pipeline is killed shortly thereafter but his equipment, still
containing vital energies, is stolen.


Powers and abilities

Digitize matter and transmit it through electronic systems as data
transmissions, teleporting the matter, and attach additional files to
the packages, teleporting a person and sedating them or paralyzing them
on arrival.

