POISON is the name of two fictional comic book characters, owned by
. The first was created by writer Steve Gerber and artist
Cynthia Martin and exists in the  Universe while the second lives
in an alternate world featured in the one-shot comic What If?:
Spider-Man: The Other. This article is about the former. Information on
the latter can be found at Alternative versions of Spider-Man.


Publication history

Poison first appeared in the lead feature of Web of Spider-Man Annual
#4 (1988), by writer Steve Gerber and artist Cynthia Martin. The annual
also included a 7-page origin story for the character. Poison returned
in an eight-part serial in  Presents #60-67
(October–December 1990), also by Gerber and Martin. Since then the
character has fallen into disuse, and did not appear again under six
years later, in Spider-Man #64.


Fictional character biography

While a first year student at the University of Havana, Cecilia
Cardinale becomes romantically involved with Vassily, a member of the
military staff at the Soviet embassy. Soviet embassy personnel are
forbidden from fraternizing with locals, and when Cecilia becomes
pregnant with Vassily's child, he signs a statement saying that she is a
prostitute in order to escape full punishment for his violation. She is
held in a Cuban prison for several months, and becomes ill from the
unsanitary conditions. She is later deported to America, where she lives
in a Florida refugee camp. A mysterious entity named Ylandris emerges
from the Nexus of All Realities in the Florida Everglades and comes to
Cecilia as she lays dying from her illness; Ylandris needs a physical
form to survive in Earth's dimension, and proposes merging her essence
with Cecilia to keep both beings alive. She later gives birth to her
son, Carlos. Once trained in the use of her new power by Ylandris, she
takes the name Poison, and becomes a vigilante, working as a motel
housekeeper in her civilian identity.

Poison kills three of the High Evolutionary's Purifiers, who were sent
to kill her because there was a possibility that her powers could be
passed on to her offspring. She then journeys to the Nexus of All
Realities, where Ylandris splits herself off from Cecilia and uses the
Nexus to return to her home dimension. Because Ylandris had modified her
genetic structure, Poison retains her superhuman powers even after her
departure. Before departing, Ylandris informs her that because she was
still pregnant at the time of their merging, Carlos might retain some
form of her power as well.

She aids Joe Trinity, who communicates with his mop, which he calls
Myrna. In reality, it is a supernatural force called Mrinhä that is
seeking to possess him, taking advantage of his breakup with his
ex-wife, whose new husband is working for the mobster called the Slug,
to interface with him, eventually joining with him and destroying the
mop. Poison destroys Mrinhä by taking it up herself and having her
Ylandris powers destroy it.

Paris Scott hires Poison for the Great Game, so the Cardinales move to
New York City. Intending to take her job with Scott, El Toro Negro
attacks Poison, but she overpowers him. The wounded Poison is approached
by Ben Reilly and, assuming him to be the same Spider-Man that she
previously met, entrusts her son's safety to him. When El Toro Negro
kidnaps Carlos, she realizes Reilly betrayed her and severs her contract
with Scott so that El Toro Negro will release her son. El Toro Negro
tries to kill them both anyway, but Reilly saves them both.

Much later, Poison was one of numerous minor heroes and villains killed
and resurrected in the service of the Hand. She took part in a combined
assault by the forces of the Hand and HYDRA on the S.H.I.E.L.D.
helicarrier. While many of those involved in the assault were killed,
Poison's fate remains unknown.


Powers and abilities

The full range of the mutagenic changes wrought on Cecilia Cardinale's
body by the presence of the alien being Ylandris is still unknown. Thus
far, Poison has demonstrated superhuman strength and exceptional
athletic ability including enhanced endurance and reflexes, as well as
the power to levitate, fly at slow speeds, and teleport herself and
others. She can also psionically alter the flesh of others to make them
sick, injured or diseased, even killing them, disfiguring them as they
die. She does not need to touch a person to exercise this power, but can
do it simply by looking at them.


Notes

