POWERHOUSE is a name used by several different fictional characters,
operating in the  Universe.


Powerhouse (Rieg Davan)

Publication history

Powerhouse first appeared in Nova #2 (October 1976), and was created
by Marv Wolfman, John Buscema, and Joe Sinnott.

The character subsequently appears in Nova #6-8 (February-April 1977),
#10-11 (June-July 1977), #24-25 (March & May 1979), Fantastic Four
#206 (May 1979), #208-209 (July–August 1979), and ROM #24 (November
1981).

Powerhouse appeared as part of the "Champions of Xandar" entry in the
Official Handbook of the  Universe Deluxe Edition #16.

Fictional character biography

Powerhouse is a member of Xandarian alien race, with superhuman strength
and the ability to absorb energy from any source to temporarily enhance
his physical strength fiftyfold, absorb the energy from a weapon used
against him and redirect it against an assailant, and even create a
psionic link with an opponent with whom he is in physical contact so as
to control his opponent's use of his or her own powers.

Davan was a member of the Syfon division of the Nova Corps, Xandar's
superhuman military. He was sent into space to perform surveillance on
the starship of Zorr, the interstellar warlord who went on to shatter
Xandar. Before Davan could report on Zorr's activities, his ship was hit
by a meteor shower and careened off-course, eventually crossing the
space of galaxies and landing in a body of water on Earth. Davan's
ship was found by the Avian criminal Condor, who brainwashed Davan into
serving him. Eventually Davan regained his memory and returned to
Xandar, serving in the Champions of Xandar.

He was killed fighting the forces of Nebula.

Powers and abilities

Powerhouse had superhuman strength, and the ability to siphon the
energies of any power-source, including living beings.


Powerhouse: the 1990s mutant

Her first appearance was in ''Spider-Man '' #15 (1991).

At some point, under uncertain circumstances, Powerhouse developed
mutant powers and a strong hatred for humanity.

Beast was giving a lecture at ESU on genetics and Powerhouse decided to
show up and send her anti-human message there. Simultaneously, a mutant
hater called Masterblaster decided to make his presence and opinions
felt at the same lecture. Though it is unclear whether one of them
influenced the other's actions at the lecture, Masterblaster came to
attack Beast, and Powerhouse attacked humans there and the Beast came to
their aid and fought Powerhouse. They fought back and forth, with
Powerhouse having the upper hand until Spider-Man showed up. While
Spider-Man kept Powerhouse busy, Beast knocked out Masterblaster and the
two proceeded to team up on Powerhouse, and defeated her, knocking her
out. She was presumably taken into police custody.

Wolverine and Warbird saw a news report of Powerhouse attacking the area
around the U.N. building, where an international debate on human-mutant
relations was to happen. She was attacking everything in sight as a
symbol of the way humans' attitude towards mutants was. Before long,
Wolverine and Warbird joined the fight, and Wolverine was flown into the
air and landed on top of Powerhouse so they could fight. However,
Powerhouse started draining Wolverine's energy and Warbird was doing
more harm than good because she was drunk and being very reckless with
her energy blasts. Eventually, Powerhouse knocked out Warbird. Without
the drunk Warbird to get in his way, Wolverine managed to defeat
Powerhouse.

Powerhouse joined with Masterblaster in robbing a local bank, but were
interrupted by Spider-Man, who defeated the duo. One of the men present
at the bank at the time of the hold-up became infatuated with
Powerhouse, and subsequently visited her in prison, which he intended to
continue to do every two weeks for the next seven years, as she served
her sentence.

Powers and abilities

Powerhouse has the ability to drain energy of other living things to
increase her own power. She can absorb energy through contact with a
victim, even brief contact like a punch. She has demonstrated the
ability to fly, shoot destructive energy blasts, and superhuman strength
to an unknown degree. However, it is unknown if she has any of these
powers unless she has absorbed sufficient amounts of energy or whether
they are independent within her. It is also unknown if she requires this
energy to survive and if so, how often she needs to feed.


Powerhouse (Alex Power)

An alias used by Power Pack leader Alex Power as a member of the New
Warriors.

