VICTOR ALVAREZ is a fictional comic book superhero published by 
Comics. He is the third person to use the Power Man alias after Erik
Josten and Luke Cage.


Publication history

The character first appeared in Shadowland: Power Man #1, part of
's 2010 "Shadowland" crossover and was created by Fred Van Lente
and Mahmud Asrar. The character subsequently appeared in a
spin-off mini-series, Power Man and Iron Fist, the following
year. Power Man would then appear in "The Chosen", a story in
the anthology comic Fear Itself: The Home Front.

Power Man appeared as a supporting character in Avengers Academy
beginning with issue #21 (Jan 2012), making occasional appearances
throughout the series.

Starting in September 2013, he appears as one of the lead characters in
the  NOW! relaunch of Mighty Avengers.


Fictional character biography

Victor Alvarez was first introduced as a Afro-Dominican teenager from
the neighborhood of Hell's Kitchen in New York City. He is the son of
Reina Alvarez and Shades. As a child, he was caught in an explosion
caused by the villain Bullseye that resulted in the deaths of over 100
people including his father. Victor survived by somehow using a
technique that drew the chi from the dead bodies around him and
temporarily granted him superhuman strength and fortitude.

Some time later during the Shadowland storyline, Victor took on the
name Power Man and began using his abilities to fight crime as a hero
for hire, advertising his services on sites like Craigslist. Victor's
activities eventually drew the attention of Luke Cage, a member of the
Avengers who had once used the Power Man name. Cage and his partner Iron
Fist eventually learn that Victor is the son of Shades, a Dominican
supervillain that Cage had fought years earlier. Though Victor dislikes
both Cage and Iron Fist, he eventually teams up with them to help the
other heroes fight the crazed Matt Murdock and his army of Hand
ninjas.

During the Fear Itself storyline, Power Man ends up teleported onto a
station in the middle of the Pacific Ocean with Amadeus Cho,
Spider-Girl, Thunderstrike, and X-23. They end up fighting a group of
samurai Shark Men. Power Man is part of the new class of students
when the Avengers Academy moves to the former headquarters of the West
Coast Avengers.

During the Infinity storyline, Power Man was with Heroes for Hire when
it comes to stopping Plunderer's men from stealing robot parts. When the
Superior Spider-Man (Doctor Octopus' mind in Peter Parker's body) stops
Plunderer, Power Man was present when the Superior Spider-Man considered
the Heroes for Hire team as mercenaries. While at a café with Luke Cage,
Power Man wants to attack Spider-Man, but Luke is a different man now
for he wants to care and support his family. Power Man then plans to
start his own version of the Avengers.


Powers and abilities

As a result of the traumatic explosion during his childhood, Power Man
possesses the ability to draw chi energy from those around him and
temporarily grant himself superhuman strength and fortitude. When
utilizing this power, Victor's skin color changes to a glowing red. This
technique is similar to the one that gives Iron Fist his abilities,
something the hero commented on during his first encounter with
Victor. Victor Alvarez wears a yellow and black body suit with metal
embellishments, similar to the look of Luke Cage, the first (heroic)
Power Man.

