PREVIEW (JESSICA VALE) is a fictional character, a mutant appearing in
comic books published by . Before being depowered, she had
the ability of short-term precognition, usually minutes in advance. She
is the sister of fellow Xavier Institute for Higher Learning student
Sarah Vale (codename Network). Preview first appeared in New X-Men:
Academy X #12 (2005).


Fictional character biography

Paragons squad

Preview is a member of the Paragons training squad at the Xavier
Institute, where she is voted the "biggest drama queen". Preview proves
to be difficult to the Paragons because she chooses not to participate
in some activities because she knows their outcomes, such as the
Paragons' failure in a school-wide competition. She shows displeasure at
the lack of surprise in everyday life due to the nature of her powers.

Depowered

Preview is one of scores of mutants who lose their powers after the
events of the House of M.

It is suggested in New X-Men, vol. 2 #32 that Preview is alive
following William Stryker's attack on a bus of depowered students. In
this issue, a memorial is held at the school for the departed, and while
Jessie's sister Sarah is mentioned as one of the deceased, Jessie is
not, and an unnamed girl with a similar appearance to Jessie is seen at
the service. In addition, writers Chris Yost and Craig Kyle confirmed
that she was not one of the students on the bus at the time of the
explosion.


Powers and abilities

Before being depowered, Preview had the mutant power of precognition -
she could view the immediate future in short bursts of flashes
("visions"), but only up to a few minutes before the events actually
occur. This influenced her to take a fatalistic approach to things,
such as standing by the sidelines during a group training exercise
because a vision showed her that her squad would be unable to break the
school record. In trying to coach her out of her fatalism, her squad
adviser, Rahne Sinclaire, stated that Jessica's visions of the future
may not always be set in stone. While not explored, Jessie could've
been able to utilize her powers to foresee an opponent's attack and be
able to dodge it in time. Furthermore, had she kept her powers after
M-Day, Preview's powers may have developed so far, that she could
potentially see the future on the same level as someone like Destiny
when she becomes an adult. Jessie may also have some knowledge of
hand-to-hand combat from the Institute.

