PUCK is the codename of two fictional characters appearing in American
comic books published by . The two characters are a father
and daughter pair, who are both members of Alpha Flight, in the
universe.


Publication history

The first Puck first debuted in Alpha Flight vol. 1 #1 and was created
by John Byrne. He had originally intended for the original Puck to be a
dwarf with no superhuman powers, merely great fighting and acrobatic
skills; subsequent writer Bill Mantlo would later retcon that Puck's
small stature was due to mystical influences. Byrne commented on this,
stating, "Of course, [Mantlo] then went on to do the 'origin' of Puck,
with the whole 'demon inside' thing being based, apparently, on the
single reference Puck had made to being in constant pain, something
which Bill failed to grasp was an effect of the condition —
achondroplasty, called by name in the same issue that referenced the
pain — which caused Puck's dwarfism." Byrne has also stated that Puck
was based "very, very loosely on a friend who was short (but not as
short as Puck) and occasionally bald, but never possessed by demons."

The second Puck debuted in Alpha Flight Vol 3 #11 and was created by
Scott Lobdell.


Fictional character biography

Puck (Eugene Judd)

The first character to use the codename is a man whose real name is
EUGENE MILTON JUDD. He was born in 1914 in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. He
spent years traveling the world as a soldier of fortune, working as an
intelligence agent and bouncer, before becoming a professional
adventurer and joining Alpha Flight.

Early in his career, Judd was hired to steal the Black Blade of Baghdad.
The Blade imprisoned an ancient sorcerer called Black Raazer, and Judd
accidentally freed him. Judd was able to trap Raazer using some
ancient mysticism and the light from his own life force. This caused the
7' tall adventurer to shrink to about 3' 6" in height, as the Black
Blade had the ability to take life force from others, which caused a
physical reduction in size. It has also granted him immortality. At some
point, he became friends with the American playboy Dan Kane, otherwise
known as Captain Terror. When Captain Terror was defeated in the Spanish
Civil War by the 1930s El Aguila, a fellow hero fighting on the opposite
side, he retired, but Puck fought El Aguila for revenge. He also formed
a friendship with noted author Ernest Hemingway and became an
accomplished bullfighter. Eventually joining Alpha Flight, he adopted
the codename 'Puck.'

Puck was wounded by teammate Marinna and hospitalized. He battled an
illegal drug running ring that was operating out of the hospital.
Before long, he returned to active duty, and battled Omega Flight.
Puck comforted Heather Hudson after James Hudson's presumed death.
Puck then encountered the Sub-Mariner, and allied with the
Sub-Mariner in battle against the Master.

Puck later journeyed to the realm of the Great Beasts alongside Alpha
Flight, where they battled the Great Beasts. Puck encountered the
Beyonder, and battled the Hulk during the events of Secret Wars
II.

During his time with Alpha Flight, he encounters a new city deep in the
Arctic Circle. There his team and the X-Men discover a mystical
wellspring. Several humans associated with the X-Men had gained vast
powers via the wellspring. Puck was cured of his dwarfism by the
well-intentioned Madeline Pryor. He discovers a problem with walking
because his center of balance was off. Later, the group discovered that
the powers came at a price too high to bear, such as the loss of all
creativity among all affected and the deaths of all mystics. This
includes Puck's friend Shaman. The group splits along ideological lines,
and both groups battle for some time before turning on the main threat.
This turns out to be the trickster god Loki was behind all this. He is
eventually persuaded to remove all effects of the well, which
unfortunately includes Puck's new height. A thought balloon indicates
that the pain associated with his dwarfism was now worse than ever.

Soon after, Puck's background is revealed, and he battles Black Raazer
who has freed himself from the prison of Puck's body. He then began
a romance with Heather Hudson. Puck later encounters the
Avengers.

Razer is later freed from Puck's body, returning Puck to normal size and
actual age. Puck is teleported to Tibet by Loki, and decides to abandon
his previous life. Puck became embroiled in a battle between Tibet
and mainland China. He battles the Dragon, and fights Dreamqueen
alongside Alpha Flight. Puck eventually receives superhuman powers
again, and became a dwarf once more; he rejoins Alpha Flight.

Later, during the events of the Infinity War, Puck is brainwashed and
taken by the cosmic powered villain the Goddess. He is paired up with
the affected Spider-Man when an invasion force of free-minded
superheroes plan to attack the Goddess' fortress. This specific pairing
is intended to teach Spider-Man brutality in the face of his 'former'
friends. Puck is swiftly taken out of the fight, defeated by Firestar.
Due to the effects of the resulting clash, all brainwashed heroes are
later freed.

Puck is brainwashed again by members of his own government, who desired
to have an Alpha Flight completely under their control. Puck fights
with this new team for a while and is one of the few to relatively
succeed against the mental mind games.

Along with Major Mapleleaf, Puck II, Vindicator, and Shaman, Puck is
among the Alpha Flight members to be apparently killed by The
Collective. Only Sasquatch was confirmed to survive.

When Wolverine has been trapped in Hell by unknown forces, Puck and an
unknown person are seen there, with the unknown person claiming to just
want to talk to Wolverine, but Puck planning on finding a way to get
both Wolverine and himself out of hell. Puck tells Wolverine to
fight through the pain he feels while being tortured, implying that it
will make the devil look weak and cause an uprising in hell, thus giving
them a chance to escape. After the Devil is beaten, Puck attempts to
escape along with Wolverine, but falls from the walls of hell which he
was scaling when another condemned one grabs his foot and yanks him off
and back into the pit. Though he remains in Hell, he wins the scrum for
the Devil's sword, thus making him the ruler of Hell, at least for the
time being.

During the Fear Itself storyline, Puck was shown to have escaped from
Hell when he arrives to rescue Guardian from Vindicator (who betrayed
the team to Gary Cody and his newly elected Unity Party, later revealed
to be under the control of the Master of the World) and stated that he
had escaped from Hell after his fight with Ba'al.

It has been announced that Puck will be a member of the relaunched
Uncanny X-Force team alongside Storm, Psylocke and Spiral.

When Elizabeth Twoyoungmen was introduced to Alpha Flight, Puck became
her physics instructor. Much later at the time of a mass Wendigo
outbreak, the two have become lovers.

As part of the All-New, All-Different  event, Puck appears as a
member of the Alpha Flight space program.

Puck (Zuzha Yu)

ZUZHA YU was a mutant who worked at a bar near McGill University in
Montreal and was supposedly the daughter of the original Puck. She
agreed to join the reformed Alpha Flight after losing an arm-wrestling
match with Walter Langkowski, alias Sasquatch.

She was one of the members of Alpha Flight apparently killed by The
Collective. {{-}}


Powers and abilities

Originally, Puck had no superhuman powers, relying on his exceptional
training. He was a formidable hand-to-hand combatant, capable of a
mixture of various martial arts, street-fighting techniques, acrobatics
and gymnastics. After a run-in with The Master of the World his body was
subject to genetic manipulation of his cellular structure. His body
tissues were condensed at a molecular level, causing his body to become
akin to compressed rubber. His trademark attack is a cartwheeling
motion. Spinning on his hands and feet at great speeds, he is able to
slam into and knock down human-sized enemies with ease. He is also
skilled in bullfighting. He has some knowledge of mysticism, enough to
once trap Black Raazer, and the ability to put himself in a temporary
deathlike trance state. Puck is about half the size of the average man.
His condition causes him varying amounts of constant pain. Also, his
aging has been stopped or vastly slowed; Judd resembles a man in his
thirties. His right ear is misshapen, presumably due to an old injury.
It resembles the cauliflower ear condition.

Zuzha had superhuman strength, speed, reflexes, agility, coordination,
endurance, and could redirect kinetic energy. She was an excellent
hand-to-hand combatant.


Other versions

Earth X

In this alternate future, Puck is seen as one of the many heroes in the
afterlife. They all rally to fight the forces of Mephisto and Thanos, in
an attempt to stop their genocidal plans.

 Zombies

In the  Zombies comics set in the universe of Earth-2149 the
zombified Alpha Flight attack the X-Men and are eventually killed by
Magneto. Puck is pictured in the foreground of a large panel depicting
Alpha Flight attacking the X-Men and Puck is apparently attacking
Nightcrawler. Puck is destroyed moments later by Magneto.

 Noir

Puck (Eugene Judd) is Captain Logan's first mate in X-Men Noir.


In other media

Television

-   The original Puck appeared in the X-Men episode "Repo Man" voiced
    by Don Francks.

Video games

-   Puck appears as enemy in  Super Heroes: War of the Gems.


Name

-   A letters page in Alpha Flight seemed to confirm that Judd is
    named after the Shakespearean character. However, in a FAQ
    dated 5/30/2006, John Byrne has stated that he is named after a
    hockey puck.
-   Zuzha is also named after the character in William Shakespeare's A
    Midsummer Night's Dream.

