QUAGMIRE (JEROME MEYERS) is a fictional character, owned by 
Comics who is a native of the universe of the Squadron Supreme. He first
appeared in Squadron Supreme #4 (Dec. 1985) in flashback, and fully in
Squadron Supreme #5 (Jan 1986), and was created by Mark Gruenwald.


Fictional character biography

Jerome Myers was born in Pittsville, Terranova, on the United States of
"Other-Earth" or "Earth-S". As Quagmire, he became a criminal and member
of the supervillain group the Institute of Evil. He was a recurring foe
of Doctor Spectrum. Alongside the Institute of Evil, he held the
Squadron Supreme's loved ones hostage, but was ultimately defeated by
the Squadron. Like the rest of the Institute members, he was
subjected to the behavior-modification process, and elected to full
membership in the Squadron Supreme.

Later, on an assignment with Ape X and Blue Eagle, Quagmire was
reprimanded by Eagle for inappropriate behavior. After saving thirty
factory workers from a gas leakage in an industrial accident, Quagmire
went into a coma. In the hospital, while in a coma, he interfaced
with the Darkforce dimension. Vast quantities of Darkforce flooded the
hospital, drowning Doctor Decibel, until the life support equipment was
disconnected by Hyperion. Quagmire was sucked into the hole in his brain
that is a portal into the dimension from which his dark matter
originates, and was presumed deceased by the Squadron.

Quagmire eventually came through a portal into the mainstream Earth
dimension which formed near the Nexus of All Realities in the belly of
the Man-Thing. Quagmire's body passed through the body of a seemingly
pregnant Man-Thing. This passage apparently reversed the effects of the
behavior modification, restoring his old criminal, renegade personality,
and he battled Quasar and Jennifer Kale. Quagmire was eventually
contacted by the Chief Examiner while in the Vault, and was freed.
Quagmire approached Kayla Ballantine and forced her through the Chief
Examiner's black teleportal. He battled the tiny Antibody which secretly
sought refuge inside his body.


Powers and abilities

Quagmire is a mutant that has the ability to tap and manipulate the
extra-dimensional Darkforce in the form of a thick, dark, viscous
tar-like substance. Opening a dimensional interface with his mind, he
seemingly projects the Darkforce from his fingertips or can open the
interface anywhere within thirty feet of him. He can control the flow of
Darkforce from a thin spray of globules to a thick torrent of oozing
slime. His darkforce manifestation is extremely adhesive: a sufficient
quantity can immobilize beings of significant superhuman strength. He
can also apply small quantities of it to his fingertips and toes in
order to scale walls and ceilings. He can shape the Darkforce into
animated tendrils or whip them about his person in a psychokinetic
tornado. The Darkforce generally behaves like quasi-solid liquid; human
beings cannot breathe through it.

Since the dimensional Darkforce is virtually limitless, there is
theoretically no limit to the amount of it Quagmire can draw to this
dimension, though presumably mental fatigue will eventually affect how
long he can hold the interface to the Darkforce Dimension open, thus
eventually impair his performance. When he is rendered unconscious, the
portal to the Darkforce dimension snaps shut and the Darkforce substance
he has drawn from it quickly vanishes to its place of origin.

Quagmire is otherwise an athletic man and a good hand-to-hand combatant,
who is skilled at both lock picking and sculpture-making.

