QUASAR (WENDELL ELVIS VAUGHN) is a fictional superhero appearing in
American comic books published by . He is one of 's
cosmic heroes, a character whose adventures frequently take him into
outer space or other dimensions. However, Quasar deviates from the
archetype of the noble, dauntless alien set by such Silver Age cosmic
heroes as the Silver Surfer, Adam Warlock and Captain Mar-Vell in that
he is an everyman. He starred in an eponymous monthly ongoing series
written by Mark Gruenwald that ran for sixty issues beginning in 1989
and has served as a member of The Avengers. In 2012, Quasar was ranked
36th in IGN's list of "The Top 50 Avengers".


Publication history

The character first appeared as  Boy in Captain America #217
(January, 1978). He continued to make guest appearances in Captain
America, The Incredible Hulk,  Two-in-One, and Avengers. He
was revamped as Quasar by Mark Gruenwald, and first appeared under
this new name in The Incredible Hulk #234 (April 1979).

Quasar received an eponymous series in October 1989, written by Mark
Gruenwald and illustrated by Paul Ryan and Danny Bulanadi. The title
crossed over with Infinity Gauntlet, Operation: Galactic Storm, and
Infinity War.

Later, the New Universe's Star Brand was introduced into the 
Universe. Its presence precipitated into the Starblast crossover,
which was intended to stir up interest in Quasar's solo series or a
prospective cosmic team series starring Quasar, but it failed to do so.
Quasar was cancelled at issue #60.

He would appear sporadically over the next several years. The character
appeared in the 1996 Star Masters miniseries (as well as Cosmic
Powers Unlimited & Silver Surfer vol 3 #123) as part of a team of
cosmic heroes with the Silver Surfer and Beta Ray Bill. He also appeared
in the Avengers: Infinity miniseries, Maximum Security (2000), and
Fantastic Four #521-524 (2006).

Quasar appeared and died in the four-issue mini-series Annihilation:
Nova (June-Sept. 2006). He appeared as a spirit in Annihilation:
Conquest: Quasar #1-4 (Sept.-Dec. 2007), by writer Christos Gage and
penciller Mike Lilly. An astral form of Quasar had a recurring role in
Nova vol 4 beginning with issue #17, as the writers Dan Abnett and
Andy Lanning (known collectively as DnA) thought he was too useful a
character to stay dead:

The character regained a physical form in the Realm of Kings one-shot
(2009) and played a role in The Thanos Imperative (2010). Quasar
assumed the leadership role of the titular team in Annihilators #1-4
(2011) and Annihilators: Earthfall (2011).


Fictional character biography

Origin and early career

Wendell Vaughn was born in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin. He graduated from
S.H.I.E.L.D. Academy. Although considered highly capable by his
superiors, they nonetheless deem him unfit for field work, sensing that
Vaughn lacked the necessary "killer instinct"—the will to win at all
costs.

His first assignment is security detail for a research facility where a
team of scientists were performing experiments on the Quantum Bands
taken from the deceased Crusader. A test pilot selected to wear the
bands proves spectacularly successful at wielding them, but he perishes
when the energy output reaches a critical mass beyond his control.
Vaughn dons the bands when the criminal scientists AIM launch a
full-scale assault on the facility. Using the bands' power to generate
solid energy constructs, he repulses the attack. When the energy buildup
begins to overwhelm him, he decides to simply relax and "go with the
flow". To his surprise, the buildup abruptly dissipates. Vaughn realizes
the key to wielding the bands is a flexible will, rather than an
indomitable, uncompromising one. Ultimately, his lack of a killer
instinct makes all the difference.

Wendell Vaughn becomes a superhero, using the codename  BOY in his
first appearance alongside S.H.I.E.L.D.'s superhuman Super-Agents. He
later becomes  MAN, and finally settles on QUASAR.

Alongside Captain America, the Falcon, and the Hulk, he battles
Moonstone and the Corporation. Later, as security chief of Project:
Pegasus, he battles the original Deathlok, Nuklo, the Grapplers, and the
Nth Man when they attack the facility. Quasar later journeys with the
Thing into an alternate reality. His mind is temporarily taken over
by the Serpent Crown.

Protector of the Universe

Quasar journeys to Uranus, where the original  Boy had received
the bands. The bands' true nature and origins are revealed to him by the
cosmic entity called Eon. Eon explains the bands were intended to be
worn by his agent, the Protector of the Universe (previously the late
Captain Mar-Vell). Quasar is offered the role and accepts. As a result,
his mind is opened to the true extent of the bands' power, including how
to use the bands to teleport via a dimension called the Quantum Zone. He
also battles Deathurge. After returning to Earth, he resumes his
role as a superhero and assists the Avengers in battle against
Super-Nova. He is inducted into the Avengers shortly after.

Quasar meets Uatu the Watcher. He encounters the Stranger, and
solves the Watcher's "Oblivion Plague".

[Quasar #32 (March 1992). Cover art by Greg Capullo and Harry
Candelario.] After a falling-out with both his estranged father and Eon,
he quits his role as Protector of the Universe. During this time
Maelstrom, the "Cosmic Assassin", kills both Quasar and Eon. However,
Quasar is recreated in an energy form by the cosmic being Infinity and
battles Maelstrom and Oblivion. Quasar saves the universe from collapse.
Maelstrom is destroyed by the Quantum-bands and Quasar resurrects
himself. Quasar fights Thanos at Eon's funeral. Eon is
reincarnated in the form of its newborn offspring, Epoch.

When a stargate being used by the Shi'ar during the Kree-Shi'ar War
threatens to destroy Earth's sun, Quasar is able to undo the damage with
the help of Binary.

During the Infinity War, Quasar travels to the Dimension of
Manifestations to gather intelligence. With the aid of the Contemplator,
he discovers the cosmic being Eternity in a catatonic state. He
leaves the dimension to join with his fellow superheroes. Quasar
attempts to use the near-omnipotent Ultimate Nullifier against the
godlike villain Magus, but Magus uses the Infinity Gauntlet to turn the
weapon against Quasar, wiping him from existence. Quasar is able to
resurrect himself through means of the Star Brand, which he had acquired
during a trip to the New Universe prior to the Infinity War. When
the Presence threatens to kill his loved ones, Quasar fakes his death
and leaves Earth.

Avengers Deep-Space/Annihilation

Quasar helps defend the universe from aliens called Infinites. When
Earth is threatened by Ego the Living Planet, Quasar absorbs Ego's
essence and exiles himself into space, for fear of Ego expanding to
planet-size.

Quasar helps to operate an Avengers deep-space sensing station with the
support of Living Lightning and Monica Rambeau, and then becomes
involved in Kang's War. He later assists the Fantastic Four in a
battle with Galactus. When the Annihilation Wave strikes, Quasar and
Nova try to stop it. Quasar is killed by Annihilus.

Wendell is restored to life in a Quantum Energy form thanks to the
scientists of Project Pegasus.

Realm of Kings

Wendell volunteers to scout the rip in spacetime caused by the War of
Kings. During the trip, he regains physical form and discovers an
alternate universe planning to invade his universe. Trying to return
to his reality, Quasar encounters an Imperial Guard exploration
ship. Quasar joins Nova's team to resist the invasion.

In an effort to prevent further galactic catastrophes, Quasar joins the
Annihilators. The team protects Galador from an invasion of the Dire
Wraiths and brings an end to the generations long war between the two
worlds. The Annihilators learn of an attempt to revive the Magus by
the Universal Church of Truth, and they prevent his resurrection with
the aid of the Avengers. Quasar and the other Annihilators later
confront Thanos and Adam Warlock while the two are on a cosmic crusade,
and are defeated.

Pleasant Hill

Vaughn begins to lose control of the Quantum Bands and willingly allows
his memories and appearance to be altered by Kobik in Pleasant Hill, a
secret S.H.I.E.L.D. prison run by Maria Hill. During this time, he works
as the curator of the Pleasant Hill museum. When Wendell's memories are
restored during Baron Zemo's prison revolt, he bequeaths the Quantum
Bands to a young S.H.I.E.L.D. agent named Avril Kincaid and agrees to
mentor her so she can become the next Quasar.


Powers and abilities

Wendell Vaughn is an athletic man with no inherent superhuman powers. He
received extensive training in hand-to-hand combat, and moderate
experience in the same. He is an expert in all basic espionage skills,
as a S.H.I.E.L.D. Academy graduate.

Quantum Bands

Quasar's powers are derived from the pair of Quantum Bands fused to his
wrists (or more specifically, from the seven gems on each of the
bands). Quasar's quantum-bands are permanently affixed to his
wrists. He can make light bend around them so they appear to be
invisible, though they are still tangible. They are linked to their
wearer's nervous system and grant tremendous powers of energy
manipulation. The Quantum Bands are composed of unknown materials and
were originally created by Eon to be worn by his designated Protector of
the Universe. They were discovered by the Uranian Eternals in a
weapons depot left by the alien Kree and brought to Earth by the deluded
Crusader that believed himself to be the 1950s  Boy.

Foremost among these powers is the ability to tap into a limitless
source of potential energy called the QUANTUM ZONE. Quasar can project
quantum energy in the form of devastating beams of force or heat, but
more commonly employs them to fashion incredibly durable constructs of
solid energy in any shape he can visualize, such as containment spheres,
pincers or most commonly as a personal force field. Once they are formed
he no longer has to concentrate on them to keep them intact.

The Quantum Bands can also exert control over many other types of energy
that are part of the electromagnetic spectrum. He can siphon energy from
virtually any power source. For example, Quasar once tapped into a sun
and caused it to emit an enormous solar flare. He can also absorb and
redirect the cosmic energy wielded by other powerful beings, siphoning
their power and using it to augment his quantum energy. Forms of energy
the Quantum Bands cannot control include magic and the Darkforce.

Although he cannot overtly affect psionic energy, Quasar has programmed
his bands to render him impervious to protect his mind from psionic
attack or takeover. Even Moondragon and the Overmind proved unable to
overcome this defense. However, this does not protect him from magical
forms of compulsion.

Quasar can create apertures into and out of the Quantum Zone, thus
allowing passage through its infinite, featureless expanse. He mainly
uses this ability to traverse interstellar distances in a manner similar
to hyperspace travel. The effect is essentially a form of teleportation,
which Quasar refers to as a QUANTUM JUMP. A Quantum Jump has a
destructive side effect on the local environment, violently upheaving
gravity and tearing holes in the atmosphere (on Earth, it would damage
the ozone layer), so Quasar initially refrained from using it except
when in space or in dire circumstances. However, he eventually
discovered that he could prevent this effect by surrounding himself with
a barrier of solid energy before jumping. Quasar can also shunt other
matter into the Quantum Zone provided that he's in physical contact with
it.

The Quantum Bands enable their wearer to fly by manipulating gravitons.
The maximum flight speed he can attain is unknown, but he made a trip
from Earth to Uranus in approximately four years flying non-stop (this
was before he learned how to quantum jump). That would require a
constant speed of roughly . This doesn't take into account the velocity
he can achieve in a short burst of acceleration.

The quantum band gems possess some capability for analyzing and
processing information as if they were extremely advanced computers.
This allows Quasar to navigate the Quantum Zone and the depths of space.
The gems are able to detect, analyze, and track energy emissions across
vast distances. They can also "program" his Quantum energy to register
and react to certain preset conditions. For instance, at one time Quasar
had the Earth surrounded with an invisible lattice-work of energy that
was designed to act as a global alert system against potential
extraterrestrial threats. The energy field could detect any surges of
exotic energy emanating from the planet's surface as well as if any
object larger than a micrometeorite passed through it; in either case,
the field would react by transmitting an alert signal to the Quantum
Bands.

Quasar has a direct link to Epoch through his bands, which gives him
ready access to her nascent omniscience.

The bands contain a finite amount of energy which will drain away if
they are isolated from their power source (as yet unexplained) and that
they also remain linked in some way to their former users. Wendell
later returned as a being of pure quantum energy, apparently due to his
link to the bands despite his physical death.

Star Brand

While he possessed the power of the Star Brand, Quasar gained the
abilities of flight, superhuman strength and resilience. He also was
able to regenerate his entire body from minute remains and did not need
to eat, drink or breathe. However, virtually all of the energy derived
from the Star Brand was depleted not long after he gave it away. The
Living Tribunal later stated that Quasar's body retains only an
insignificant trace amount of energy.

Cosmic awareness

Quasar also briefly possessed the same powers of cosmic awareness that
Eon granted to Kree soldier Mar-Vell (later known as the original
Captain ). By simply concentrating for a moment, he could gain
complete knowledge about virtually anything in the universe. It's
unclear why Eon didn't bestow cosmic awareness on Quasar permanently,
but being nigh-omniscient himself, he likely determined that it would
have been detrimental to Quasar's psyche (as it was to that of
Genis-Vell). The fact that he received the awareness while his mind was
inhabiting an energy construct, and he did not demonstrate it upon
returning to his body, may also have something to do with it.

Standard Operating Procedure

While Quasar's powers are quite powerful and diverse, since he doesn't
make it a habit of using all of his power to destroy his opponent, it is
important to note his standard operating procedure:

-   Contain. Quasar encounters someone who looks menacing. Immediate
    reaction: whip up a containment vessel around him to prevent
    further danger.
-   Drain. If it appears this menace has energy-based powers, Quasar
    taps those powers and drains them off. The length of time this takes
    depends on the extent of the menace's power. He cannot do this to
    persons whose energies are outside the electromagnetic spectrum.
-   Attack. Clobber the guy with a quantum-construct, be it a personal
    weapon (Quasar prefers nunchakus) or something big like a giant
    hammer or anvil.


Other versions

Captain Universe Quasar

After a failed war with the Elder God Set and the deaths of every hero
on Earth save The Silver Surfer, Quasar was merged with Captain Universe
to form a super-being that was capable of capturing and defeating Set.
Using the Eye of Agamotto, Quasar trapped himself and Set within its
pocket dimension.

Once, during a trip through alternate realities, the Earth-616 version
of Quasar viewed his Captain Universe-enhanced counterpart and Set
battling each other.

Guardians of the Galaxy

Tricked by Eon's evil 'child' Era, Quasar jumps to a sentient nexus of
energy and is killed. He ends up in the 'White Room', where all Quantum
Band wielders go after death. Eon is entrapped with him, in the form of
a centerpiece on the Room's table.

Her, now called Kismet, teams up with the long-lost son she had with
Quasar, Starhawk. They visit Quasar's grave and learn what Era has done.
With the aid of the Hawk-God Starhawk worships, the two vow to stop
Era.

House of M Quasar

Wendell Vaughn briefly appeared for one panel as a scientist during the
alternate time line caused by Wanda Maximoff. There is no indication
that he possesses the quantum bands in this universe.

Last Avengers Story

Quasar briefly mentioned as having been driven insane in Last Avengers
Story #1, but he does not appear.

 Zombies

In  Zombies: Dead Days #1, Quasar is one of the heroes who
attended the briefing given by Nick Fury to defend their world from the
zombie plague. A zombified Quasar is featured in the 2009 limited
series  Zombies Return. He is part of a super-powered zombie
force steadily consuming this dimension's Earth. This includes the
Super-Skrull, Namor, Moon-Knight and Thundra. His group destroys many of
the somewhat heroic zombies featured in  Zombies 2. Quasar
murders his reality's human Kitty Pryde by holding her underwater.
Quasar's team of murderous zombies is eliminated by a group of somewhat
heroic zombies that had developed a nanite delivery system.

Ultimate 

S.H.I.E.L.D agent Wendell Vaughn is the head of security for the top
secret Project Pegasus in Devil's Point, Wyoming. He first appears in
Ultimate Power #1, when Project Pegasus is attacked by the Serpent
Squad. Vaughan never appears in the Ultimate Universe as the superhero
Quasar.

