QUICKSILVER (PIETRO MAXIMOFF) is a fictional superhero appearing in
American comic books published by . The character first
appeared in the comic book X-Men #4 (March 1964) and was created by
Stan Lee and Jack Kirby.

Quicksilver has the superhuman ability to move at great speeds. In most
depictions, he is a "mutant", a human born with natural superhuman
powers. In comic book stories beginning in 2015, he is the product of
genetic experimentation by the High Evolutionary. Quicksilver most
commonly appears in fiction associated with the X-Men, having been
introduced as an adversary for the superhero team. In later stories, he
became a superhero himself. He is the twin brother of the Scarlet Witch
and, in most depictions, the son of Magneto.

Debuting in the Silver Age of comic books, Quicksilver has featured in
several decades of  continuity, starring in the self-titled series
Quicksilver and as a regular team member in superhero title the
Avengers. The character has also appeared in a range of movie,
television, and video game adaptations. Two separate live-action
versions of the character have been adapted by two different film
studios: Aaron Taylor-Johnson portrays the character in a mid-credits
cameo in the  Studios film Captain America: The Winter Soldier
and reprises the role as a supporting character in Avengers: Age of
Ultron as a part of the  Cinematic Universe, while Evan Peters
portrayed Quicksilver in the film X-Men: Days of Future Past and will
reprise the role in X-Men: Apocalypse.

In 2006, IGN named Quicksilver #23 on their list of "The Top 25 X-Men Of
All Time" commenting that "Quicksilver was the shining example of a
villain turned good," and as #44 on their list of the "Top 50
Avengers".


Publication history

Quicksilver first appears in X-Men #4 (March 1964) and was created by
writer Stan Lee and artist/co-writer Jack Kirby. The character initially
appears as an antagonist to the X-Men, although before long he becomes a
member of the Avengers and appears as a regular character in that title
beginning with Avengers #16 in May 1965. He has made numerous other
appearances in that title, and other related titles, sometimes as a
member of the team, sometimes as an ally, and sometimes as an
antagonist.

From 1991 to 1993 Quicksilver was a regular character in the first
volume of X-Factor. The series emphasized the character's irritability
and arrogance, which writer Peter David felt were a natural consequence
of his powers, explaining:

Quicksilver also starred in Quicksilver, a regular ongoing eponymous
series that began in November 1997 and ran for 13 issues. The character
also played a pivotal role in the House of M and Avengers: The
Children's Crusade

Quicksilver appeared as a supporting character in Avengers Academy
from issue #1 (Aug 2010) through its final issue #39 (Jan 2013). He
appears as one of the members of All-New X-Factor, which was launched
in 2014 as part of the second  NOW! wave. Writer Peter David's
handling of the character in that book earned the character a 2014 @ssie
award from Ain't It Cool News. AICN's Matt Adler commented that David
writes the character best, and that the "arrogant, impatient speedster"
made the title worth following.


Fictional character biography

[The first appearance of Quicksilver (top right), on the cover of
X-Men #4 (March 1964).] The character first appears with his twin
sister, the Scarlet Witch (Wanda Maximoff), as a part of the Brotherhood
of Evil Mutants. The siblings were originally presented as mutants, with
Pietro possessing superhuman speed and Wanda able to control
probability. The pair are recruited by their father Magneto after he
saves Wanda from a mob after she accidentally causes a house to burst
into flame. Quicksilver stays with her to protect her. He has Jewish
ancestry, from his father. After several confrontations with the
X-Men, they depart when Magneto and his lackey the Toad are abducted
by the cosmic entity the Stranger. They then travel back to Europe.
Pietro and his sister reform and are recruited by Iron Man to the
superhero team the Avengers, after they discover they are advertising
for new members and want to get support for themselves.

Together with leader Captain America and former villain Hawkeye, the
four become the second generation of Avengers, and are later dubbed
"Cap's Kooky Quartet". Quicksilver first thought he should be leader,
though he is captured by the Mole Man on the first mission. He is
rescued by the Avengers, who defeat the Minotaur without him, and
would sometimes quarrel with the other members. The Scarlet Witch
becomes close friends with Hawkeye and both become loyal members of the
team until Wanda is accidentally shot on a mission against Magneto.
Quicksilver then flees from the Avengers with his wounded sister.
The pair accompany Magneto back to his mid-Atlantic base, where the
character captures the X-Men and Pietro skirmishes with the X-Man
Cyclops. After a solo appearance by Quicksilver in the title The
Amazing Spider-Man, the twins finally realize that Magneto is
actually the true villain. Pietro and Wanda reappear in the title
X-Men and are then kidnapped along with several other mutants by the
robot Sentinels, and are subsequently freed by the X-Men.

The character reappears in the title Avengers, and advises the team
that Wanda has been kidnapped and taken to another dimension by the
warlord Arkon. After Wanda is rescued, Pietro and his sister rejoin
the team. During one mission Quicksilver is wounded by a Sentinel
and is found by Crystal, a member of the Inhumans. Crystal nurses
Pietro back to health, and the pair are eventually married. Pietro
and Wanda also meet Robert Frank—formerly World War II hero, the
Whizzer—who was present at Mount Wundagore (the birthplace of the
siblings) with his wife at the time of their birth. Frank briefly joins
the Avengers, believing Pietro and Wanda to be his children. The
Scarlet Witch also becomes romantically involved with her Avengers
teammate the android Vision. Although Pietro initially disapproves, he
eventually gives his blessing to their marriage. [Cover of
Avengers #16 (May 1965), featuring the debut of Quicksilver (center
left) in The Avengers.] Quicksilver features with the Inhumans and
Fantastic Four against the villain the Sphinx in a Fantastic Four
annual, and the siblings' origin is explored in the title Avengers
when romani Django Maximoff kidnaps Pietro and Wanda and returns to
Mount Wundagore in the country of Transia, where they were born. After a
battle with the Avengers against the Elder God Chthon, the siblings
learn from Bova, one of the New Men created by the character the High
Evolutionary, that they are the children of Maximoff, and not Robert
Frank. Quicksilver then returns to Attilan (city of the
Inhumans) and in the title Fantastic Four is revealed to have had
a daughter (Luna) with Crystal.

During the limited series Vision and the Scarlet Witch, Magneto forces
Bova to reveal the truth about his missing children, who are revealed to
be Pietro and Wanda. After their mother Magda dies in childbirth, the
children are given by the High Evolutionary to Django Maximoff to raise
as his own. Pietro and Wanda reject Magneto when told. His marriage
to Crystal is also strained when she has an affair. Crystal's uncle
Maximus the Mad uses technology to cause Quicksilver to become
psychotic. This drove him to frame the Avengers for treason as his
perceptions are twisted to perceive them as having 'betrayed' him,
forcing them to escape the government-sponsored Freedom Force, and then
deal with Quicksilver's new 'team' of LMD-based duplicates of the
Zodiac, until the Vision convinces Pietro to stand down by showing him
images of his newborn nephews.

Quicksilver battles the West Coast Avengers and is captured by the
Inhumans and cured of his condition. In an effort to repent for his
actions, Pietro aids the Avengers West Coast against Magneto and the
villain Immortus, who has captured Wanda. Although successful,
Pietro refuses to return to Crystal and joins the now U.S.
government-sponsored superhero team X-Factor. The character and
Crystal are reunited during the storyline "Bloodties" when the Avengers,
X-Factor and X-Men team to stop a group of mutant terrorists who kidnap
their daughter Luna, and are responsible for a civil war on the island
nation of Genosha. After dealing with the threat, Quicksilver learns of
Crystal's relationship with Avenger the Black Knight and leaves,
also resigning from X-Factor.

The character also features in a self-titled limited series, with
Quicksilver taking daughter Luna and traveling to Mt. Wundergore, aiding
the High Evolutionary and his Knights of Wundagore against villains
Exodus and the Man Beast. Quicksilver uses the experimental Isotope E
to augment his powers, allowing him to move at greater supersonic
speeds. A future version of Pietro called "Nestor" appears and reveals
that his powers are not speed but rather temporal based. Quicksilver
also rejoins a reformed Avengers and features briefly in the second
volume of Heroes for Hire. [Quicksilver and the Scarlet Witch
discover their origin in Avengers #185 (July 1979).
Art by George Pérez. ] Under the All-New, All-Different  branding,
the character will be part of the Uncanny Avengers.

Descent and Rebirth

Quicksilver features in the limited series Magneto Rex, and with
half-sister Polaris spies on their father Magneto, who is now the ruler
of Genosha. Quicksilver is banished when he rallies the Avengers against
Magneto. Quicksilver makes sporadic appearances in Avengers and
the mutant titles Mutant X, X-Factor and X-Men until featuring in
the limited series X-Men: Age of Apocalypse in a battle with the
despot Apocalypse.

House of M

Quicksilver plays a pivotal role in the limited series House of M,
convincing his now mentally unstable sister Wanda to use her abilities
to warp reality and create a world where mutants are in a majority and
humans are the minority—with Magneto established as absolute ruler—while
also giving their fellow heroes their own greatest desires—having
abducted Professor X to read the minds of the heroes—to discourage them
from trying to restore history and stop them from killing Wanda. Thanks
to Wolverine retaining his memories, along with the mysterious Layla
Miller, many of Earth's heroes regain their memories and battle Magneto,
who also remembers and realizes that Pietro is to blame for this
mistake. Magneto kills Quicksilver (crushing his body with a robot
Sentinel) in a rage at this perceived 'abuse' of his dream, although the
character is resurrected and the normal reality restored when the
Scarlet Witch witnesses this, telling Magneto he cares more for mutants
than his own children. In retaliation the Scarlet Witch has also
depowered 98% of the mutant population, which by accident includes
Quicksilver.

Son of M

The story continues in the limited series Son of M, with Quicksilver,
desperate to regain his powers, exposing himself to the Terrigen Mist
(the source of the Inhumans' mutations and abilities) and inserts
Terrigen crystals into his body—all without permission from Black Bolt.
Courtesy of the Terrigen crystals, Quicksilver gains new "time jumping"
powers and kidnaps his daughter Luna. Quicksilver discovers the crystals
can restore mutant abilities but have an extreme effect on non-Inhuman
physiology, causing several deaths. Quicksilver and Crystal meet
again in the direct sequel, limited series Silent War, when Black Bolt
demands the return of the crystals. When Crystal sees how he has
mutated, she declares their marriage annulled according to Inhuman
law.

In the title X-Factor, the crystals are removed from Quicksilver's
body by another mutant, leaving him powerless once again. Destitute
and jailed for vagrancy in the one-shot X-Factor: The Quick and the
Dead, Quicksilver has a series of hallucinations and inexplicably
regains his super speed. Escaping jail, Quicksilver rescues an innocent
and rediscovers his desire to be a hero.

Mighty Avengers

Quicksilver appears in the title The Mighty Avengers and is used as a
pawn by Elder God Chthon, with the character's spirit trapped in the
arcane tome called the Darkhold. The Avengers defeat Chthon, and
Quicksilver's consciousness is "downloaded" into the body of Vision,
before being restored to his own body. Quicksilver joins the team
after learning that it is Wanda (Asgardian god Loki in disguise) who
brought the team together. After the events of the Secret Invasion
storyline the character is publicly exonerated of former crimes,
with an unknown Skrull being blamed (although Henry Pym, Maximoff's
daughter Luna, and Avengers butler Jarvis are aware of the lie).
Quicksilver also resumes wearing his original green costume.
Quicksilver loses the respect of his daughter Luna when he lies to the
Inhumans and claims that many of his past actions were actually
perpetrated by a Skrull impostor, although Pym tolerates the lie as
he feels that Quicksilver deserves a chance to redeem himself.

Quicksilver finally learns that the person he thought was his sister is
actually Loki in disguise. Enraged, he and the rest of the team travel
to the Isle of Silence to set a trap for the god of mischief. After
imprisoning Loki in a device designed by Hank Pym, he begins torturing
the god for information about Wanda's whereabouts. Loki offers no
information about her and manages to contact Thor to beg for his help.
Thor arrives and attacks Quicksilver for the way he is treating Loki. He
is able to outrun the thunder god's lightning but is eventually
overpowered. He is one of the Avengers who joins Hercules, Amadeus
Cho and their allies in an assault on Olympus Group Headquarters. He
battles Amazon warrior women alongside Zeus and helps a wounded
Wolverine defeat the Huntsman, stabbing him through the chest with his
own weapon.

Quicksilver is later summoned by the Ghost using Amadeus Cho's
technology, to defend Asgard against the Thunderbolts. He single
handedly defeats Mister X who is in possession of the Spear of Odin. Mr.
X isn't able to react quickly enough despite his abilities and
Quicksilver viciously beats him down with a piece of debris. He is
seen alongside the other Avengers against the Void-possessed Sentry in
the events of Siege.

Avengers: The Children's Crusade

Quicksilver is searching for his sister in Wundagore when Magneto and
the Young Avengers go to find the Scarlet Witch. After trying to abduct
his nephew Wiccan so he can assist him in finding his sister, he is
stopped by his father and his other nephew, Speed. After Wiccan suggests
that maybe Magneto actually did want to make up for his past, he became
angry and said, "Nephew the last time I allowed myself to believe
that..... My father tried to kill me". Quicksilver prepares to fight his
father but when debris from his rampage strikes his sister it is found
that the Scarlet Witch there is actually a Doombot in disguise. The
journey takes Quicksilver and his comrades all the way to Latveria so
they rescue the Scarlet Witch. After the Scarlet Witch turns herself in
to the X-Men and the Avengers a fight breaks out between the two groups.
After being knocked out along with all the other Avengers and X-Men by
his sister, he is finally reunited with his sister.

Heroic Age

Quicksilver joins the teaching staff of Avengers Academy to teach young
students how to become heroes. He does so in order to distance himself
from the legacy of his father Magneto. One of the new students,
Finesse, figures out that his story about being abducted by Skrulls is a
lie. She blackmails him into giving her "private lessons" on everything
he learned during his time with the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants.
Finesse convinces Quicksilver to help her search for the Taskmaster, who
might be her biological father. After arriving at what they thought was
an abandoned training camp, they found it still in use and quickly
captured the criminals they found there. Quicksilver returned to the
mansion and encountered Tigra, who was upset because some of the
students assaulted the Hood on her behalf. During a heated exchange
Quicksilver managed to convince her that kicking them out of the Academy
for trying to help would only turn them against becoming heroes. At
the new campus for the Avengers Academy (where the Faculty are offering
to train other superpowered youths), Quicksilver is revealed to be
mentoring Lightspeed as a teacher's assistant.

In the miniseries "Magneto: Not a Hero", Joseph is resurrected under
unknown circumstances and forms a new Brotherhood of Mutants with Astra
and mutated deformed versions of Blob, Mastermind, Quicksilver, Scarlet
Witch, and Toad. It is soon revealed that the mutated versions of Blob,
Mastermind, Quicksilver, Scarlet Witch, and Toad are clones created by
Joseph.

Quicksilver has joined the privately owned superhero team X-Factor.
When confronted during a press conference by Fatale over his actions
meant to repower mutants and his lying about a Skrull having been
responsible, Pietro finally admitted in public that he had been
responsible and had tried to avoid facing the consequences; by doing
this, he earned his daughter's respect back, and the two reconciled.

Wanda and other heroes and villains experienced a moral inversion during
a clash with the Red Onslaught. Quicksilver and Magneto try to talk
the inverted Wanda down, but when Wanda attacks them with a curse
designed to punish her blood relatives that only affects Quicksilver,
Wanda realizes that Magneto is not their biological father.

Quicksilver and Scarlet Witch later take a trip to Counter-Earth.
After being tracked down and defeated by Luminous (a female who was
created by the genetic material of Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver),
Pietro and Wanda were brought to the High Evolutionary himself. He
revealed to them that they are actually the long thought deceased
children of Django and Marya Maximoff, Anna and Mateo. He also told them
the truth where they were not mutants at all, but they had been
experimented on by the High Evolutionary. After escaping from the High
Evolutionary's experimentations, Pietro and Wanda located the Avengers
Unity Division (who had traveled to the Counter-Earth looking for the
twins) and helped the inhabitants of Lowtown (a refuge for the High
Evolutionary's rejects) from their creator's assault. After the High
Evolutionary is defeated and he escapes into a portal with Luminous,
Quicksilver and Scarlet Witch return to Earth with the Avengers Unity
Division.


Powers and abilities

Quicksilver was originally presented as a mutant capable of moving and
thinking at superhuman speeds. Originally capable of running at the
speed of sound, exposure to the High Evolutionary's Isotope E made it
possible for the character to run at supersonic speeds of up to Mach 10
and resist the effects of friction, reduced oxygen, and kinetic impact
while moving at super-speeds. Also, he has a fast metabolism and can
heal more rapidly than the average human. The character's speed allows
him to perform such feats as creating cyclone-strength winds and running
up walls or across bodies of water. It has been revealed that one of the
reasons for his abrasive and impatient personality is that it seems to
him that the rest of the world is moving in slow motion and that he is
constantly waiting for it to catch up. As he once explained, "Have you
ever had a day where you are at the ATM and you are in a hurry because
you're running late but the person in front of you doesn't know how to
use the ATM and they're taking forever? Now imagine what it must be like
to spend every day surrounded by people who don't know how to use the
ATM."

Quicksilver loses his powers of speed when his sister removes most of
his mutant powers, but gains new powers courtesy of the Inhumans'
Terrigen Mist. The mist gives Quicksilver the ability to displace
himself out of mainstream time and space and "jump" into the future. The
character can summon several time-displaced duplicates of himself and
appear to teleport by "jumping" into the future and then returning to
the present at a new location. By voluntarily embedding fragments of the
Terrigen Crystals into his own body, the character could empower former
mutants with extreme versions of their superhuman abilities. However,
the effect was usually fatal. The crystals are subsequently forced from
the character's body by the mutant Rictor, leaving him without these
abilities. After having a series of hallucinations, Quicksilver saw a
woman in mortal danger and felt a desire to be a hero then regains his
mutant powers in order to save the woman's life.

It was later revealed that he actually was a normal child that was put
through several experiments by the High Evolutionary which granted his
powers.


Other versions

JLA/Avengers

In the / crossover JLA/Avengers, Pietro first appears being
brainwashed by Starro when the Avengers battle him. Thanks to a
combination of Wanda's magic and Ms. 's powers, they manage to get
Starro's probe off of him. When he and the other Avengers go to the
 Universe, he becomes interested in the Speed Force and becomes
obsessed with defeating The Flash, but he fails twice. During the final
battle in the Savage Land, he finally defeats the Flash, but only does
so because there is no Speed Force in the  Universe. He makes
an appearance in the final battle with Krona, but it is very brief. He
also appears at the end as one of the heroes that started out the entire
event.

 Zombies

In the limited series  Zombies, Earth-2149 is contaminated with
a virus that turns victims into flesh-eating zombies, with Quicksilver
infected when bitten by a "zombified" Mystique (who at the time was
impersonating his sister Wanda). This results in the rapid spread of the
zombie virus, as Quicksilver is able to infect hundreds around the world
in a short amount of time. The character reappears in the limited
series  Zombies 3, revealed to be working for a "zombified"
Wilson Fisk. Quicksilver is eventually lured into a trap by the
Earth-616 Machine Man and subsequently destroyed. The zombie virus
spreads to a different Quicksilver in 'Earth Z', who is featured in the
limited series  Zombies Return. Here, his body is capable of
operating independent of the head.

 Zombies Return

When the zombies from Earth-2149 cross over into Earth-Z, Quicksilver is
transformed into a zombie, and in  Zombies Return #5 is one of the
few remaining zombies left who fought against Spider-Man and his New
Avengers, attempting to steal a canister containing the 'cure' that
Spider-Man had developed, only for the wall-crawler to accidentally pull
Quicksilver's head off when trying to catch him with his webbing. He was
killed by a cyborg Iron Man.

 1602

Limited series  1602 depicts Quicksilver as Petros, the assistant
(and secretly, son) of the High Inquisitor of the Spanish Catholic
Church, Enrique.

Ultimate 

[Ultimate version of Quicksilver with his sister, the Scarlet Witch,
on the cover of Ultimates #8 (Nov. 2002). Art by Bryan
Hitch.|upright|right|thumb]

Ultimate  features a version of the character warped by constant
abuse from Magneto. The character is faster than the Earth-616 version,
stating that as a teenager he was already capable of reaching speeds of
Mach 10.

After he and his sister, the Scarlet Witch, defected from their father's
Brotherhood of Mutant Supremacy, they joined the Ultimates. The twin
siblings also share an incestuous relationship. During the Ultimate
X-Men's Magnetic North story arc, he watched over his father while he
was imprisoned in the Triskelion, and threatened to kill him. In
The Ultimates 3, he and his sister are apparently killed; however,
Quicksilver later resurfaced at the end of the Absolute Power story arc,
and killed Moira MacTaggert.

In Ultimatum #5, Quicksilver assassinated Cyclops as he is giving a
speech at Washington , using the same bullet that was used to murder
the Scarlet Witch.

Following the deaths of major characters of the X-Men and the
Brotherhood, Pietro began to search for new Brotherhood team members.
Mystique, Sabretooth and Teddy (the son of Blob) joined him in
Wundagore, along with an apparently reborn Wanda.

Following his sister's orders, Quicksilver tried to help the White
House, only resulting in the death of many mutants at the hands of
Nimrod Model Sentinels, which were controlled by the Reverend Stryker
before his death. When Pietro arrived in Egypt, he met his father, Erik,
completely alive. However, this was revealed to be an illusion from
Sinister. He attempts to manipulate his younger half-brother, Jimmy
Hudson, but is defeated.

Later, he helps Reed Richards assemble some of the Infinity Gems and
joins his team of Dark Ultimates. Quicksilver is fatally wounded
after he turns against Richards and Kang, and chooses to die by Wanda's
graveside.

What If?

Quicksilver and Scarlet Witch appear in the What If?_ story "What If
the X-Men Died on their First Mission?" as allies of Beast following the
demise of the X-Men and upon the menace by Count Nefaria and his
Ani-Men. Although invited to join the newly formed team upon the success
of their mission, both decline in favor of their current commitments,
although they promise their aid if they are needed.

X-Men Noir

In the one-shot X-Men Noir, Peter Magnus is a former college track
star, and works in the Homicide Department of the NYPD with his father:
Eric Magnus, Chief Detective and the leader of The Brotherhood.


In other media

Television

-   Quicksilver appeared as a part of the Avengers in a few episodes of
    the Captain America portion of The  Super Heroes in 1966,
    voiced by Len Carlson.
-   Quicksilver guest-stars in three episodes of X-Men, voiced by
    Adrian Egan.
-   Quicksilver is a recurring character in the animated series X-Men:
    Evolution, voiced by Richard Ian Cox.
-   Quicksilver appears as a member/leader of the Brotherhood of Mutants
    in the animated series Wolverine and the X-Men, voiced by Mark
    Hildreth. He appears in the episodes "Hindsight" Pt. 2, "Timebomb",
    "Past Discretions", "Battle Lines", "Backlash", and the three part
    series finale "Foresight".
-   Quicksilver is featured in The Super Hero Squad Show episode
    "Hexed, Vexed, and Perplexed", voiced by Scott Menville.

Film

-   Quicksilver appears in the 2014 film X-Men: Days of Future Past,
    played by Evan Peters. Bryan Singer shot all of
    Quicksilver's scenes in 3,600 frames per second. A viral
    marketing website for the film shows that Quicksilver broke eight
    world records in track and field events, causing a scandal, and
    prompting athletics officials to adopt a genetic testing policy in
    partnership with Trask Industries preventing mutants from competing
    in professional sporting events. Peters will reprise his role as
    Quicksilver in the upcoming 2016 film X-Men: Apocalypse.
-   Aaron Taylor-Johnson signed on to play Quicksilver in the 2015 film
    Avengers: Age of Ultron. Taylor-Johnson first appeared
    as the character in a mid-credits scene of the 2014 film Captain
    America: The Winter Soldier. Pietro and his sister Wanda
    (Elizabeth Olsen) are captives of Baron Strucker, having volunteered
    themselves to be experimented upon by Hydra. Although, both
    Taylor-Johnson and Olsen signed multi-picture deals for their
    characters, producer Kevin Feige stated that there are no
    future plans for Quicksilver, who is killed in the film's
    climax.

Video games

-   Quicksilver appears as a supporting character in Captain America
    and the Avengers.
-   Quicksilver has a brief cameo appearance in the video game X-Men
    Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse.
-   Quicksilver appears as a boss in the PSP, PS2, and Wii versions of
    : Ultimate Alliance 2, voiced by Robert Tinkler.
-   Quicksilver appears as a playable character in  Super Hero
    Squad: The Infinity Gauntlet, with Scott Menville reprising his
    role.
-   Quicksilver appears in the X-Men: Destiny video game, voiced
    by Sunil Malhotra.
-   Quicksilver is a playable character in the Facebook game :
    Avengers Alliance.
-   Quicksilver is a playable character in  Avengers: Battle for
    Earth.
-   Quicksilver is a playable character in  Super Hero Squad
    Online.
-   Quicksilver is a playable character in Lego 's Avengers,
    voiced by Aaron Taylor-Johnson.

