RADIOACTIVE MAN is the name of two fictional characters appearing in
American comic books published by .


Publication history

The Chen Lu version of Radioactive Man first appears in Journey into
Mystery #93 (June 1963), and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby.

The Igor Stancheck version of Radioactive Man first appears in Black
Panther Vol. 4 #3 and was created by Reginald Hudlin and John Romita
Jr.


Fictional character biography

Chen Lu

A nuclear physicist and Communist agent in the People's Republic of
China, Chen Lu first appears in Journey into Mystery #93 (June 1963).
Ordered to find a way to defeat Thor - who thwarts the Red Army's
invasion of India - the character exposes himself to small doses of
radiation until he is able to endure a massive barrage, becoming a
living "Radioactive Man." He plans to eventually take over the world.

Traveling to New York City, Chen battles Thor, who is first defeated
when Chen hypnotizes him into throwing his hammer away. But Don Blake is
able to recover his hammer from a river, and defeats the villain by
creating a vortex, sending Chen back to China, where he apparently
explodes.

Radioactive Man becomes a recurring foe of the Avengers, being coerced
by Baron Heinrich Zemo to join the original Masters of Evil in a bid to
destroy the Avengers. He is the first to confront the Avengers, and
sticks Captain America and Giant-Man to the pavement with an adhesive,
which Thor dodges. He is defeated by Giant-Man and Iron Man when they
imprison him in lead coils. He is then deported back to China. The
character reappears with the new Masters of Evil, organized by the robot
Ultron. The villains, however, are betrayed by the Black Knight.
Radioactive Man and his teammates appear once again during a Halloween
parade and are defeated by a coalition of superheroines called the Lady
Liberators.

Chen escapes and travels to Vietnam, where he joins Soviet villains
Titanium Man and Crimson Dynamo as part of a team called the Titanic
Three. Acting as crime fighters in Vietnam, the trio is duped by a con
man and petty thief called the Slasher and end up battling the
Avengers until the deception is uncovered. After an encounter with
Iron Man, the characters go their separate ways. After a humiliating
defeat by time-traveling villain Kang the Conqueror in Giant-Size
Avengers, Chen joins another incarnation of the Masters of Evil -
led by Egghead - but is defeated by Ant-Man and deported back to
China.

Radioactive Man continued to feature in Iron Man, and is employed by
Iron Man's arch-enemy Mandarin. Chen is employed in his civilian
capacity as a physicist by Stane International (formerly Stark
International, taken over by Obadiah Stane). Radioactive Man appears in
the graphic novel Deathtrap: The Vault, among other supervillains
attempting to escape from the Vault. Chen, however, aids the heroes in
preventing a nuclear reactor meltdown. Radioactive Man also features
in an issue of Sensational She-Hulk and once again in
Avengers.

After appearing in the second volume of Avengers that takes place in
an alternate universe and briefly in Thunderbolts, the
one-shot Heroes Reborn: Masters of Evil, the third volume of the
Avengers, and alternate universe title Exiles, Radioactive
Man features in the limited series Avengers: Earth's Mightiest
Heroes.

Chen attempts to reform and in New Thunderbolts joins the
Thunderbolts, a team composed almost entirely of reformed
supervillains. During the Civil War storyline, the character aids
heroes Mister Fantastic and Yellowjacket in building a holding prison
for dissenting superpowered beings, and also battles the
anti-registration heroes. A major development occurs in the title
Thunderbolts when the group encounter the Elders of the Universe
member the Grandmaster; the Radioactive Man absorbs an excessive amount
of radiation and is forced to wear a radiation suit at all times.
The radiation eventually subsides, but industrialist Norman Osborn
convinces the character to retain the suit to distract the American
public from his clearly Asian features and quell any lingering fears
about his radioactivity. The Radioactive Man is featured in the one
shot Thunderbolts: International Incident, the limited series
Avengers/Invaders, one shot King-Size Hulk, and
Thunderbolts: Reason In Madness before appearing briefly in the
Secret Invasion storyline.

As part of the Thunderbolts, Radioactive Man fought Spider-Man and
Anti-Venom during the New Ways to Die storyline; during the fight,
Radioactive Man had a portion of his radiation powers drained by
Anti-Venom. He continued with the team however, going after the
super-hero Moon Knight, with the group. Radioactive Man was one of
Songbird's strongest allies within the team, often supporting her when
she fought against Osborn.

Ultimately, following the events of the Secret Invasion, Norman Osborn
and Moonstone began the process of neutralizing the members of the
Thunderbolts who would oppose Osborn in his plan to exploit the invasion
for his own personal agenda, in order to gain more power. Osborn
arranged for Chen to be deported back to China, leading to a bittersweet
departure involving himself and Songbird.

The Radioactive Man reappears in The Mighty Avengers as part of The
People's Defense Force, China's indigenous group of metahumans. The
Radioactive Man demonstrates that at close proximity he can safely
absorb the radiation of Inhuman Xerogen crystals and also, presumably,
safely absorb Terrigen Mist. However, the People's Defense Force is
largely defeated by an invading entity known as The Unspoken, a
deposed former king of the Inhumans. The Unspoken is defeated in China
by the Mighty Avengers.

During the Heroic Age storyline, a young man named Warhead appeared as
a member of the Bastards of Evil, claiming to be the son of Radioactive
Man. He has been shown to have similar powers, but killed himself in
a mass explosion that killed hundreds of people.

Radioactive Man later released a Chinese dragon made of magic in the
Federal Bank Reserve. While Captain America, Iron Man, the female Thor,
and Vision fought the Chinese dragon, Spider-Man, Ms. , and Nova
encounter Radioactive Man. The senior Avengers managed to destroy the
dragon, but upon reuniting with their wards, they learned that they have
let the Radioactive Man to escape. The young heroes explain to them that
they were forced to leave the Radioactive Man alone as there was a man
that needed to be rescued. The senior Avengers are proud for what the
young heroes did as heroes are meant to protecting people first and
foremost and welcomes them to the team.

Igor Stancheck

A second Radioactive Man features in the fourth volume of Black
Panther. The character is a Russian mutant named IGOR STANCHECK and is
one of several mercenaries (including Rhino, Batroc, and the Vatican
Black Knight), orchestrated by Klaw and invading the fictional African
kingdom of Wakanda. The group makes an unsuccessful attempt to destroy
the huge mound of the metal vibranium located at the heart of the
kingdom. He was killed in battle by Black Panther's sister
Shuri.


Powers and abilities

Chen Lu was a normal human until exposed to excessive amounts of
radiation, which changed his skin coloring to an iridescent green, and
allows him to manipulate radiation across the microwave spectrum.
Abilities include radiation emission as heat, "hard" radiation
(inflicting opponents with nausea, dizziness, and radiation poisoning),
and hypnotic light. He can also absorb nuclear radiation without harm
and convert it to energy for personal use such as strength enhancement
or to cauterize wounds, create force fields, and emit electromagnetic
radiation to deactivate machinery. He has shown the ability to leave
behind "radiation pills", i.e. infusing a single individual with enough
radiation to give him severe radiation poisoning and let the
contamination spread in a large population. While it was briefly implied
that his radioactive makeup and some further enhancements of his powers
had left him radioactive and unable to have contact with unshielded
people, he was retconned to have always been in full control of his
abilities. Even so, during his tenure in the Dark Avengers, Norman
Osborn had his original costume replaced with a customized radiation
suit, hiding his oriental features and quelling every lingering fear
about his radioactive makeup. Chen Lu holds a Ph. D. in nuclear physics.

Igor Stancheck has the same powers as Chen Lu.


Other versions

Heroes Reborn

In the Heroes Reborn universe, created by Franklin Richards, Radioactive
Man appeared as a member of Loki's Masters of Evil.

MC2

Radioactive Man is still active in the MC2 reality.

House of M

The Radioactive Man makes an appearance in the House of M reality, as
he is on the team of individuals who attempted to break Baron Von
Strucker out of prison. They were stopped and apprehended by Captain
 (Carol Danvers), the Kree army, and Major Erik Josten.


In other media

Television

-   The Chen Lu version of Radioactive Man appears in the Captain
    America segment of The  Super Heroes voiced by Gillie
    Fenwick. He appears as a member of Baron Heinrich Zemo's Masters
    of Evil.

-   The Igor Stancheck version of Radioactive Man appears in the Black
    Panther animated series, voiced by Rick D. Wasserman. He is sent to
    Wakanda by Klaw and is killed in battle by Princess Shuri.

-   The Chen Lu version of Radioactive Man appears in The Avengers:
    Earth's Mightiest Heroes. In the episode "Hulk Vs. The World" he
    makes a cameo as prisoner of the Cube. He reappears in the episode
    "The Casket of Ancient Winters", where he fights Iron Man, Thor, and
    Black Panther at Stark Industries for the Arc Reactor's energy.
    Radioactive Man is defeated when Thor blows up the building's water
    lines, washing out the villain and the reactor. In the episode
    "Assault on 42", he (along with other villains) volunteers to fight
    the Annihilation Wave and, when strategically allowing Absorbing Man
    to absorb his radiation, they were able to wipe out a massive swarm
    of the Wave. He is apparently killed when the Wave crushes a
    walkway, dropping him into the Negative Zone.

-   The Igor Stancheck version of Radioactive Man appears in the
    Avengers Assemble episode "Secret Avengers", voiced by Roger Craig
    Smith. This version is shown to be associated with the Winter
    Guard. At some point, Radioactive Man was apprehended by HYDRA and
    placed in a radiation-proof capsule in order to be used as a
    power source. Crimson Dynamo had obtained the key to the capsule so
    that Winter Guard could free them. When the destabilized Russian
    facility threatened a nearby village and the Avengers worked with
    the Winter Guard to save the village, Crimson Dynamo and Falcon
    freed Radioactive Man who then dissolves the facility.

Video games

-   The Chen Lu version of Radioactive Man appears as a boss in the
    video game : Ultimate Alliance, voiced by James Sie. He is
    seen as a member of Doctor Doom's Masters of Evil and takes part in
    the attack on the S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier U.N.N. Alpha. Radioactive
    Man fights the heroes alongside Winter Soldier.

-   The Chen Lu version of Radioactive Man appears as a boss in the PSP,
    PS2, and Wii versions of : Ultimate Alliance 2, voiced by
    Don Luce.

-   The Chen Lu version of Radioactive Man appears as a playable
    character in Lego 's Avengers.

-   The Chen Lu version of radioactive Man appears in : Avengers
    Alliance 2.

