RADIUS (JARED CORBO) is a fictional character, a superhero in the 
Comics universe. He is a former member of the superhero team Alpha
Flight. He first appeared in Alpha Flight: In The Beginning #-1, and
first appeared as Radius in Alpha Flight vol. 2 #1 (both published in
1998).


Fictional character biography

Jared and his younger half-brother Adrian (later codenamed Flex) were
raised in the Hull House orphanage, which was actually a facility
operated by the Canadian government's secretive Department H. While
Adrian became shy, reserved and bookish, Jared became athletically
inclined, aggressive, and arrogant. Both brothers manifested mutant
powers after puberty: Adrian gained the ability to transform parts of
his body into blades, while Jared manifested a personal force field that
could not be shut down. Jared rejects the initial flirtations of his
teammate Murmur for personal reasons.

Later, he is sent with to corral the mutant Wolverine, whom the entire
team believes has killed the ex-Alpha Flight member Box. This was part
of the lies and mind-control that Department H was using on the entire
team. Jared's bravado, when the team corrals Wolverine, is met with
shock by Adrian, who has a high level of respect for the man. Jared
stands up to Wolverine's intimidation tactics but soon fight breaks out
anyway. Backup X-Men soon join in. It is Adrian, though, who calms
things down by wanting to talk instead of fight. Various discrepancies
in the mission lessen the Alphans desire to do battle.

The brothers were recruited into a new incarnation of the Canadian
superhero team Alpha Flight.

They assist the new Alpha Flight in battling several foes, including the
Zodiac organization and the Brass Bishop. The Bishop is found by Alpha
Flight after many innocent civilians go missing. He has brainwashed them
and is building a Tower of Babel, an enormous structure that is intended
to reach heaven. The team also confronts Department H's own power-mad
leader, Jeremy Clarke, who dies of radiation poisoning during a Zodiac
raid on the Department H headquarters. Their Alpha Flight team fight
several members of the original Flight and later team up with them to
defeat a new Weapon X, who had been created by a rogue Department H
scientist. Both groups of Alphans merged into a unified Alpha Flight
following this adventure. The Corbo brothers and several other members
of the new team were later reassigned to Alpha Flight's trainee team,
Beta Flight.

Radius is later hired by X-Corps, a militaristic strike force founded by
former Generation X headmaster and former X-Man Sean Cassidy, a.k.a.
Banshee. The X-Corps was ultimately betrayed by its criminal members.
Radius is defeated when the villain Avalanche opens a chasm beneath him.
Jared survived the fall, though, and has been shown as one of the many
depowered mutants in the aftermath of M-Day.

It was later revealed that Unus the Untouchable was Radius' father after
Flex starts searching for their fathers through their adoption
agency. It has long been rumored that Carmella Unuscione of the
Acolytes is the daughter of Unus. It is currently unknown if the two are
siblings, some other relation or all together unrelated.


Powers and abilities

Radius, before being depowered, could generate a permanent force field
around him. He does not feel the impact of blows upon it. While the
shield is generally porous enough for him to breathe, he can make it
almost impervious, even to air.

He could also create extensions of the field to use as a ranged attack,
and brace objects against it to "fake" super-strength.


Ralphie Hutchins

-   RALPHIE HUTCHINS has been also called Radius, which was his third
    form. He is also known as Brute, Seeker, Torque, Earthlord
    and Entity. He first appeared in She-Hulk vol. 1 #6 and as Radius
    in She-Hulk vol. 1 #24


Bibliography

-   Alpha Flight vol. 2 #-1, 1-20
-   Uncanny X-Men #355, 401-404
-   Wolverine vol. 2 #142


Footnotes

