RAGE (ELVIN DARYL HALIDAY, sometimes misspelled "HOLLIDAY", first name
sometimes given as "ELDON") is a fictional character, a comic book
superhero appearing in American comic books published by .
He is African American. Rage was created by Larry Hama and Paul Ryan in
The Avengers vol. 1 #326 (November 1990). Rage has been a member of
the Avengers and the New Warriors, and appeared in the pages of The
Avengers, New Warriors, Night Thrasher, and ''Avengers: The
Initiative.


Fictional character biography

Origin

Elvin Daryl Haliday was born in Brooklyn, New York. At age 13, he was
exposed to toxic waste after coming home from basketball practice.
Returning to his grandmother's home, Elvin was nursed back to health.
The chemicals caused Elvin to grow in strength and invulnerability,
until he appeared to be a muscular man in his mid-30's. Encouraged by
his grandmother to use his newfound abilities for good, Elvin adopted a
costume and name: RAGE.

Avengers

Soon after his transformation, Rage confronted the Avengers demanding to
be made a member. He scolded Captain America for the team's lack of any
black members. Rage left after a brief scuffle, but ended up assisting
the Avengers in their next mission against L.D.50. Alongside the
Avengers, he battled other-dimensional alien prisoners. After the
team was reorganized under a new United Nations charter, Rage was
invited to join as a probationary member.

In one of his first adventures as an Avenger, Rage battled Doctor Doom,
and discovered that this Doom was actually a robot duplicate. During
his Avengers career, he fought Ngh and the Tetrarchs of Entropy, the
Brethren, the Collector, Brutus, and Grotesk. Rage was also shown,
along with the Sandman, being trained by Captain America.

After racial tensions escalated due to the machinations of the energy
vampire called the Hate-Monger, Rage and the New Warriors battled the
Sons of the Serpent. The Avengers joined the fray, and Captain America
was ultimately able to calm the situation and forced the Hate-Monger to
retreat. During the battle, though, it came out that Rage was, in fact,
only a teenager. Because of this, Cap told Rage that he could not be an
Avenger, but could continue as a trainee if he wished.

New Warriors

Rage was dejected with the demotion. He soon helped the New Warriors and
Darkhawk steal one of the Avengers' Quinjets for a mission to Cambodia
to battle Tai and the Folding Circle. This Quinjet ended up being stolen
by the Folding Circle, the very villains the New Warriors had gone off
to fight. He was ultimately fired from the Avengers complete with a
parting punch in the jaw from Hercules himself. About an hour later, he
joined the New Warriors as a full member, and was given a new
costume.

With Speedball, Rage battled an evil duplicate, and defeated it by
absorbing it into himself. As a member of the New Warriors, he
battled Force of Nature, the Trans-Saballian army, and, with
Spider-Man, Archangel, and Doctor Strange, went up against
Darkforce.

During his time with the New Warriors, Elvin's grandmother Edna Staples
was killed right before his eyes by a street gang called the Poison
Memories, bent on revenge against the team, leaving him an orphan. He
donned a new costume after that, complete with a metal helmet.
Andrew Chord, the legal guardian of his teammate Night Thrasher, became
Elvin's legal guardian. For some time, Rage was in legal trouble with
the authorities, as he had been accused of murdering Kimeiko Ashu, the
leader of the Poison Memories. He was ultimately cleared of all charges
with the assistance of Night Thrasher, who later took him to Paris for a
memorial service for his grandmother.

Rage was part of the attacking force that traveled to a duplicate Earth
on the far side of the moon during the Infinity Crusade. He teamed up
with the X-Men member Cyclops and they were the closest to get to the
villain's cathedral headquarters. Rage was swiftly dropped with a nerve
pinch by Gamora and was out for the rest of the battle.

Later, Rage and Night Thrasher were voted out of the New Warriors after
they had been absent during the team's battle with the paramilitary
group Undertow who had enslaved their teammate Namorita. After their
expulsion from the New Warriors, for a short time, Rage and Night
Thrasher acted as mentors to their former foes, Psionex.

Later, Rage and Night Thrasher took it upon themselves to free Namorita
from Undertow. After doing so, all three returned to the New
Warriors. Eventually, though, the team began to drift apart and
Night Thrasher formally disbanded them.

Reserve Avenger

After the New Warriors broke up, Elvin left for boarding school.
Speedball contacted him to join a new version of the team, but Elvin
turned him down, preferring to concentrate on his studies.

Elvin remained inactive as an adventurer and only returned a couple of
times when called on as a reserve Avenger. First, he assisted the team
against Morgan le Fay after the heroes returned from the Heroes Reborn
universe. He later assisted them during the Avengers Disassembled
situation.

"Civil War"

Rage and former teammate Justice learned that people were hunting down
former New Warriors members because of the deaths caused by
Nitro. They both sought the legal services of Jennifer Walters in
protecting the allies of the New Warriors. They eventually discover that
former New Warriors member Carlton Lafroyge (Hindsight Lad) was
responsible for the persecution and exposure of their teammates.
Hindsight had been operating a website outing the identities of the
twenty or so remaining Warriors; he was also operating a dead pool. When
John Jameson arrives, he arrests Hindsight. Rage remains on the scene
until Jameson asks She-Hulk to marry him. Both Rage and Justice decided
to side with Captain America during the Civil War, and refused to go
along with the proposed Superhuman Registration Act. Rage is seen
escaping from the containment van that held those that refused to comply
with the Act.

The Initiative

Sometime later, Rage is seen on board a bus of new recruits arriving at
Camp Hammond. During his time in the Initiative program, Rage is
subjected to constant verbal abuse by Gauntlet about his former
teammates, the New Warriors, due to the Stamford tragedy. Rage is among
the recruits helping people get to safety during World War Hulk.
After witnessing the battle between the Hulk and Iron Man, Rage orders
the recruits to follow him and help battle the green gamma monster.
However, they only see Hulk and his Warbound with the defeated Avengers
lying at their feet. The recruits are defeated and imprisoned at Madison
Square Garden and fitted with obedience disks to prevent their escape.
They are subsequently rescued by the Shadow Initiative. The recruits
(except for Komodo, who had obeyed orders not to engage the Hulk) are
then subjected to even more verbal abuse and more intense training by
Gauntlet as punishment for breaking ranks. Shortly thereafter, Gauntlet
is found beaten nearly to death with a New Warriors "NW" scrawled across
his chest in his own blood. All former New Warriors members and
associates on base are detained for questioning. During the S.H.I.E.L.D.
investigation, Rage reveals that he had an altercation with Gauntlet the
day before the assault and that Gauntlet was about to recommend washing
him out of the program and that his powers be removed until he turns 18.

During the Dark Reign storyline, Rage quits the Initiative along with
other New Warriors-associated cadets (Justice, Debrii, Slapstick, and
the remaining Scarlet Spiders) to form Counter Force. He later
returned to Camp Hammond with the team, now calling themselves the New
Warriors again, and battled Ragnarok, the clone of Thor.

Fear Itself

During the Fear Itself storyline, Rage appears at a meeting held by
Prodigy regarding magical hammers that have crashed into the Earth.
He is seen with Debrii rescuing survivors and helps the team in their
battle against Thor Girl, who had recovered her designate powers.

Secret Wars 2015

During the Secret Wars storyline, Demolition Man met Rage and Edwin
Jarvis at Avengers Mansion during the incursion between Earth-616 and
Earth-1610. The two enjoyed a brief career as Luchadore wrestlers.


Powers and abilities

Elvin's exposure to unknown biochemical radioactive wastes gave him
superhuman strength, speed, stamina, durability and resistance to
physical injury. He becomes exponentially stronger with applied force,
such as hitting. He is able to use his enhanced strength to leap great
distances. In his first appearance, Rage was shown outrunning a speeding
subway train, but this ability has not been used again.

Rage possesses basic street-fighting skills, and has received some
combat training from Captain America and Night Thrasher.

Rage usually wears a costume of synthetic stretch fabric and body armor,
and formerly wore a helmet of unspecified material, all of which he
designed for himself.


Other versions

House of M

Rage appears as a member of the House of M's version of the Wolfpack
alongside Speedball, Turbo, Zero-G, Darkhawk, and Lightspeed.


In other media

Television

-   Rage makes a cameo in the Fantastic Four episode "To Battle the
    Living Planet."

