RANDOM (MARSHALL EVAN STONE III) is a fictional character and antihero
created by writer Peter David for the  series X-Factor. He
started out as a thorn in the side of X-Factor, but he later became a
reluctant ally of theirs. The mystery of his life has yet to be
completely revealed.


Fictional character biography

Random's complete origin is unclear. It appears that he was created from
a mass of protoplasm by Dark Beast, making Random the continuation of an
experiment that Dark Beast began while Sinister's lead scientist in the
Age of Apocalypse reality. It is also possible that Random was born
normally and then captured and experimented on by Dark Beast. Following
Dark Beast's experimentation, the young Random is given the name of
Alex, and he uses this name while serving as McCoy's helper in the
sewers beneath New York City when he worked with the Morlocks.

"Alex" eventually escapes, shifting his appearance to that of a
muscle-bound man and creating the identity of bounty hunter Random. It
is unknown if the name Marshall Evan Stone III is his real name or just
a name he created for his new Random persona. According to the memories
of Charlie Ronalds, a person with Random's powers killed Charlie's
parents when Charlie was very young, though Random has never been
confirmed as the killer.

In his first encounter with the government-sponsored X-Factor team,
Random is called in (presumably by the government) to bring back a group
of Genoshan renegades called the X-Patriots, who refuse to leave a
hospital where one of their comrades is being treated. Random and
X-Factor clash and, wanting to end the fight quickly, team leader Havok
buys out Random's contract.

Because of his success as a bounty hunter, Random is contracted to go
after X-Factor member Polaris. During their battle, Random tells her
that the same government that employs her hired him to kill her. Polaris
doesn't believe him, but he assures her that there are mutant haters in
the government. After a brief scuffle, Polaris leaves, later confessing
to Havok that she felt Random was holding back during the fight, as if
he wanted her to win.

Joining X-Factor

After X-Factor encounters the religious fanatic Haven, Random visits
X-Factor members Wolfsbane and Strong Guy, confessing to them that the
government agents who had previously hired him are now after his life as
well. In exchange for protection, he agrees to tell X-Factor who hired
him to kill Polaris. The team sets out to find Haven, and Forge hires
Random's services against Haven for $15,000 and a new car, so he tags
along. When they locate Haven, she transports Random and the rest of
X-Factor to a pocket dimension where she shows them how much they really
need her. In this world, Random begins to revert to his protoplasmic
state, causing Haven to point out that she knows the truth behind his
bloodthirsty façade. When she returns the team to the real world, Random
is completely gelatinous but quickly pulls himself together and refuses
to talk to the team about it.

Following Haven's defeat, Forge pays Random and offers him a permanent
job on the team, which he declines. Shortly thereafter, Random, Forge,
and Polaris track down Colonel Malone, the man who hired Random to kill
Polaris. The trio find him, but he commits suicide before they can
question him. However, Malone's assistant informs them that the
government never planned on killing Polaris—they only wanted to test her
limits as part of their plan to use her as a fail-safe against Magneto.
If Random had defeated her, she would have been brought in and
brainwashed to become the government's weapon.

The Brotherhood

Random returns after Havok re-forms the Brotherhood of Mutants with Dark
Beast, Fatale, and Aurora, among others. He and Havok clash until Havok
reveals to him the true nature of his mission: He is attempting to
undermine the Brotherhood from within. The duo then help liberate the
subjects of some of McCoy's inhumane experiments.

Random is next hired by Exodus (along with Feral, Pyro, Avalanche, the
Fenris twins, and Omega Red) to assist the Acolytes. Exodus promises to
help his new operatives find a cure for the Legacy Virus if they capture
the Knights of Wundagore, but when they fail, Exodus leaves them
stranded in the Savage Land.

Random resurfaces on Genosha during Magneto's rule and is quickly
dispatched when the ad hoc Genoshan Assault X-Men squad attacks the
island to rescue Professor X.

Weapon X

[Random and Diamond Lil trying to revolt from Weapon X.]

Random is later captured by the refurbished Weapon X Program in their
attempt to exterminate mutants. He is placed in Neverland, a mutant
concentration camp, and attempts a coup with the help of Diamond Lil.
However, the inmates don't realize that their powers are being negated
by Leech, and they are both severely punished for their actions.

Post M-Day

Random is one of the few mutants that retained their superhuman powers
after M-Day. Alongside Tempo, Unuscione, and Frenzy, Random again
works with Exodus, joining his new team of Acolytes and participating in
an attack on the S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier.

Random and the Acolytes later attack the Xavier Institute on a mission
from Mister Sinister to retrieve Destiny's diaries. However, the diaries
they find are fake, and after a battle with Colossus, Shadowcat, and
several students, the Acolytes are forced to return to Sinister without
completing their mission. Random is present with the rest of the
Acolytes in the final battle of "Messiah Complex."

X-Men: Legacy

When Professor Xavier returns to New Avalon to confront Exodus, Random
is still among the Acolytes. Xavier convinces Exodus to disband the
group and find a new way to help mutantkind, and Random, Amelia Voght,
and Omega Sentinel decide to relocate to San Francisco in response to
the X-Men's call for all mutants to relocate there.

Random is next seen on Utopia during Bastion's attack on the island.
Random, along with Scalphunter, Sack, Litterbug, and others, is rallied
to Utopia's defense by Cyclops, who declares, "Today you are all
combatants. You are all X-Men."

Following the battle, Random attends Cable's funeral. When Cyclops
puts together a squad of X-Men led by Rogue and Magneto to help with
reconstruction efforts in San Francisco, Random is included in the
group, along with Colossus, Psylocke, Omega Sentinel, Danger, Hellion,
and Hope.

Random later appears as a member of the Utopians alongside Elixir,
Karma, Masque, Madison Jeffries, and Tabitha Smith.


Powers and abilities

Random's body is made of morphing protoplasm which can change into
almost any shape he can imagine and commonly changes his forearms into
weapons that fire hardened protoplasm projectiles from his own
biomatter. He is able to randomly counteract any force or mutant ability
directed at him, alter his mass and strength and rapidly regenerate
damaged or detached/severed biomatter and limbs.


In other media

Television

-   Random made non-speaking cameo appearances in X-Men: The Animated
    Series._ In "Sanctuary," Random is shown amongst the mutants that
    reside on Asteroid M in "Sanctuary." In "Secrets Not Long Buried,"
    Random is one of the many mutant residents of the mutant-dominated
    community of Skull Mesa.

