RAPTOR is the name of three fictional characters in the '
universe. The first Raptor appeared Avengers West Coast as a minor
villain, and is a mutant. The second Raptor appeared in the
Spider-Girl series in the alternative future MC2 universe. She is the
daughter of the criminal BLACKIE DRAGO (the second person to use the
identity of Vulture). The third Raptor (chronologically speaking, the
second) appears in the The Amazing Spider-Man. He is a former college
professor named Damon Ryder, who joined dinosaur genes with his own DNA,
transforming him into a human/lizard hybrid.


Gary Wilton, Jr.

RAPTOR (GARY WILTON JR.) is a mutant who first appeared in Avengers
West Coast Annual #8. Raptor once assisted the West Coast Avengers in
battling Ultron and Alkhema.

Raptor kept his powers after M-Day and was seen trying to flee into
France but was confronted by French superhero Le Peregrine.

{{-}}


Brenda Drago

Fictional character biography

Brenda Drago was forced by her father into what was supposed to be a
life of crime, as he gave her a suit equipped with functional wings
(created from technology used in the costume he had worn as the second
Vulture). Brenda became a flying thief known as the Raptor. But her
crime spree was stopped by the combined efforts of Spider-Girl and The
Buzz. In a surprising twist of fate, Raptor actually became friends with
Spider-Girl. She even began to use her flight-suit as a hero, joining
with Spider-Girl and Buzz in the formation of a new New Warriors. She
even fell in love with Spider-Girl's friend Normie Osborn, and the two
became engaged.

However, Raptor's luck went bad when she was held accountable for her
previous crimes by a man named Agent Wheadon, who made Raptor join his
crime-fighting team of "reformed" criminals, in exchange for a pardon.
However, Normie bonded with the Venom symbiote, and made a bargain with
Wheadon, offering his new powers in helping Wheadon's team in exchange
for Raptor's release.

In an attempt to remove Spider-Girl from her friends, the new Hobgoblin,
(later revealed to be the original Hobgoblin, Roderick Kingsley)
savagely attacked Raptor and chained her body to a fence. In the
following issue, she was taken to the hospital where she seemed to be
recovering. She later marries Normie Osborn.

Powers and abilities

Raptor's costume has functional artificial wings that enable her to fly
at high speeds. She is incredibly maneuverable in the air, and combined
with the fact that the tips of her wings are razor-sharp, she is
incredibly formidable when airborne.

{{-}}


Damon Ryder

Fictional character biography

In his first appearance, Damon Ryder infiltrated May Parker's engagement
party in Boston. He had stalked her relatives, the Reilly's, for some
time in an attempt to find Ben Reilly, whom he claimed burned down his
house and killed his family. He found Peter Parker, whom Ben was cloned
from, and attacked him, believing him to be Ben. Peter was able to fend
off Raptor's attack long enough to sneak off and change into his
Spider-Man costume. The two battled, and Raptor was eventually defeated.
However, he managed to escape while Peter was distracted at the shock of
learning about Ryder's interest in Ben Reilly.

Ryder later tracked Peter down to New York, first attacking him at the
Front Line office, then going to his apartment with the intent of
leaving a message for Peter with his roommate, Michelle Gonzalez. He
then went to May's house, where Peter's cousins and Harry Osborn were
staying, and took all the occupants hostage. When Peter arrived, Raptor
threatened to kill them all unless Peter revealed his "true" identity.

Through flashbacks, it was shown that Ben Reilly once worked as lab
assistant to Ryder. The two became close friends during their work
searching for proof of dinosaurs being human ancestors, with Ben meeting
Ryder's wife and children. However, Ben soon discovered that Ryder had
experimented on himself with velociraptor genes in an attempt to further
their research. When he confronted him, Ryder grew angry and the two
argued. Damon attacked Ben, but Ben managed to restrain him, hoping to
bring in a geneticist to purge his system of the mutation. Damon managed
to escape in the interim, and Ben followed him to his home, where Damon
revealed that he was starting to mutate, thus become more susceptible to
Ben's assistance. As they talked, both were unaware that Ben's fellow
clone, Kaine, was hiding just outside the house. Kaine jumped in through
a window and attacked Ben, with a fire starting during the ensuing
battle. It was then shown that Damon had murdered his own family, though
he did not realize it, having been driven insane by his mutation, his
warped mind causing him to conclude that Ben had killed his family in
'protest' against his experiments. Furious, Ben beat him unconscious,
with Kaine commenting that the events that unfolded would have drastic
consequences.

In the present, Kaine broke into the Parker house, revealing that he was
working with Raptor, under the promise of being cured of his cellular
degeneration. During the fight, he exposed Peter's identity as
Spider-Man, and Ben's identity as a clone. He encouraged Raptor to kill
Peter, since anything Ben would do, so would Peter. Refusing to accept
this, Peter affirmed both his and Reilly's innocence, proclaiming that
neither of them would ever kill anyone, and beat Raptor unconscious,
just as Ben had. However, Kaine managed to take Raptor and escape before
the police arrived. Raptor later told Kaine that he lied about curing
him in order to gain an ally. Enraged, Kaine then breaks Raptor's neck,
seemingly killing him.

Powers and abilities

Through combining his DNA with that of a velociraptor, Ryder gained
enhanced senses, strength, speed, and endurance. He also gained the
ability to sprout large claws from his arms, and large fangs from his
mouth. He also carries a pair of Submachine guns, displaying moderate
marksmanship. He is also highly intelligent, having been a skilled
geneticist in past times.

