RAVAGE 2099 (PAUL-PHILLIP RAVAGE) is a fictional character, a superhero
that appears in comic books published by .


Publication history

Ravage was created by Stan Lee in 1992 for 's  2099 imprint.
Ravage's first full appearance was in Ravage 2099 #1, which was
released alongside other  2099 universe titles Spider-Man 2099,
Doom 2099, and Punisher 2099, distinct among the other titles as
Ravage was an original character, not re-imagined. The series ran for 33
issues.


Fictional character biography

PAUL-PHILLIP RAVAGE was the CEO of ECO, a subsidiary of Alchemax that
worked to combat polluters. Ravage's life changed when he was framed for
murder in response to questioning the secrets of the company and the
violent, often fatal, methods it used. A fugitive armed with a blaster,
a cog used as a shuriken, and a kevlar vest, Ravage was the target of
both the police and Alchemax. On the lam, Ravage's companions were an
orphaned boy named Dack, son of a man his company killed, and an
Asian-American woman named Tiana who was originally his secretary.
Ravage was targeted for elimination by Anderthorp Henton, and battled a
mutroid and ECO security. Alongside Dack and Tiana, he battled
Alchemax troops. As a fugitive, Ravage would find himself traveling
from civilization to Hellrock, home of irradiated and mutated outcasts,
to become the mutated hero of the Barrio — an impoverished community of
superhero worshipers located on the outskirts of the city. The despotic
ruler of Hellrock, Dethstryk, who planned to invade the rest of the
world and destroy all humans, would eventually become Ravage's nemesis.
Ravage freed Tiana from Hellrock, and battled Deathstryk and the
mutroids, and became contaminated by radiation from Hellrock.

He battled more mutroids, and was treated by Dr. Ursell. After prolonged
exposure to the radiation of Hellrock, Ravage soon developed a new
superpower: his hands became radioactive and constantly generated lethal
energy. This new power gave Ravage extreme destructive power, but it did
not last for very long. Eventually, the radiation devolved his body to a
primal beast form, making Ravage far more attuned to the animal world
and giving him horn-like protuberances on his head and face; sharp
taloned hands and feet; fangs; a long vertical scar on the left side of
his face; enhanced senses, strength, and speed; and the ability to
regenerate from almost anything. Ravage can also transform back to a
human form when necessary.

Alongside Dack and Tiana, he battled the New Atlanteans, and then
Anderthorp Henton. His body was then reverted to bestial form by
radiation.

[Ravage as a man-beast, in Ravage 2099 #28.]

Tiana would later become a version of the Norse entity Hel, given
powers by Alchemax as part of a scheme to control or kill vigilante
superheroes, such as Ravage himself. The two would confront each
other, but Tiana recognized her friend and kept herself from killing
him.

Later they both gained new jobs. Ravage a new business style-job, and
Tiana destroying old satellites to follow a 'one up, one down' law. The
two would temporarily split when Ravage's animal nature caused him to
blurt out his opinion of her new powers, specifically that she is
wasting them.

Ravage attempts to control his animal side, but it comes out in various
ways. In one instance, he almost transforms in the presence of a
business rival. While visiting a zoo full of cloned animals, he roars
back at the lions, realizing he is communicating with them about their
wild instincts hating their confinement. He comes to accept his animal
side better after dealing with an insane hunter and his abused
cat-man.

Ravage teams up with a sentient bat-woman, named Ferra, to search out a
legendary valley of animal-people. They team up to destroy a
reality-manipulating alien, but do not actually find the valley at the
time, just a close, other-dimensional copy.

Ravage eventually returned to Hellrock, along with Ferra and
Tiana/Hela. There, with the help of Dethstryk's own confidant, the
Seeress, Ravage killed Dethstryk and took over Hellrock. Ravage
(presumably) died after being immersed in liquid adamantium by Doom and
sent into space.


Powers and abilities

Ravage gained powers through surgery and being mutated by the radiation
of Hellrock, where he battled Deathstryk to free Tiana. Initially, the
powers consisted of the ability to fire kinetic bio-energy beams from
his hands that were physically taxing on Ravage; however, these powers
mutated and Ravage soon became a man-beast. In his new form, Ravage had
enhanced strength, speed, senses, durability, and agility, and
superhumanly acute senses; in addition to growing horns, fangs, and
claws on his hands and feet. Ravage also possessed a healing factor.

Ravage formerly wore a vest of unknown 21st century fabric lined with
"ultimate" Kevlar (experimental blaster-proof fabric), molecular gloves
(capable of containing the kinetic energy power of Ravage's hands for up
to one hour), and an adjustable opti-lens (enabling long-range
telescopic and infra-red sight).

