RAZA LONGKNIFE is a character from , usually seen in the
X-Men series and various spin-offs. He is the last known surviving
member of his unnamed alien race (which chose to die en masse in one
final battle against the Shi'ar empire as the culmination of their
warrior culture), and a member of the Starjammers.


Publication history

Dave Cockrum created the Starjammers with the intent of having them star
in their own series. However, when he submitted the concept for 's
two try-out series,  Spotlight and  Premiere, he was
repeatedly informed that these series were booked for two years solid.
Running out of patience, Cockrum showed the Starjammers to X-Men
writer Chris Claremont, and convinced him to use the characters for this
series.


Fictional character biography

While imprisoned on Alisbar, Raza Longknife (his last name is an English
translation of his true last name) met and formed the band of smugglers
and space pirates known as the Starjammers; with Corsair, Hepzibah, and
Ch'od, and associated himself with the group. He is a cyborg, being
partly living flesh and partly machine. Because Raza speaks an archaic
dialect of his native language, his words are translated into an equally
archaic form of English, which can be both an annoyance and a source of
amusement to his allies. Raza was married, though his wife is now
deceased, and he has a son named Rion. "His initial grudge against the
Shi'ar came about when their former emperor, D'Ken, slaughtered Raza's
race of people, but Vulcan became the focus of Raza’s rage after he
murdered Raza’s friend Corsair."

With the Starjammers, he came to the aid of the X-Men against D'Ken's
Imperial Guard. Much later, with the other Starjammers, he fought off
an alien attack on the Starjammer vessel. He engaged in mock combat
with Carol Danvers, after she joined with the Starjammers. With the
Starjammers, he aided the New Mutants in combat against the Magus.
Together with Danvers, then known as Binary, he sought the "map-rod"
holding information on the location of the "Phalkon" power source; this
power source turned out to be the Phoenix. Raza and the Starjammers were
attacked by Deathbird's Shi'ar starships. With the Starjammers, he first
met and fought Excalibur on Earth and aided a rebellion against
Deathbird on a Shi'ar border world. Raza was later captured by the
Warskrulls, and impersonated by one of them, but was ultimately freed by
the X-Men.

Alongside Hepzibah and Ch'od, Raza battled Wonder Man during the
Kree/Shi'ar War, while escorting the Shi'ar nega-bomb to the Kree
Empire. With Hepzibah, Raza accepted an assignment from a former
Kree admiral to kill the Black Knight in hopes of being reunited with
his son. With the Starjammers, Raza visited the Avengers and Binary on
Earth, and Raza fought and seriously injured the Black Knight. Raza
battled Hercules, but was defeated by the Vision. Raza confided in
Binary, who reconciled him with the Avengers. He fell out with Hepzibah,
but returned with the Starjammers to the Shi'ar Empire.

Raza has suffered from the death of his loyal friend Corsair. He has
also dealt with Hepzibah's stranding on Earth although several X-Men
have remained with the Starjammers.

In the “X-Men: Kingbreaker” miniseries, Raza was infected and became
reluctant host to the alien symbiote known as ZZZXX. The
symbiote-controlled Raza subsequently becomes a member of Emperor
Vulcan's Imperial Guard. In the concluding events of the War of Kings,
Raza was incapacitated by the Nova Corps and is presumed to be receiving
expert medical attention to remove the symbiote.


Powers and abilities

Raza has been converted into a cyborg, with various bionic body parts,
including his left eye, his left arm and hand, and much of his face and
thorax. This gives him superhuman strength, enhanced agility, speed, and
reflexes thanks to his robotic parts. Raza's cyborg body contains
computers that he can utilize for various tasks. Raza can convert his
bionic left hand into a bladed weapon at will. His cyborg body contains
advanced sensor systems and atmosphere processing systems that enable
him to breathe in various alien environments. He is a skilled
hand-to-hand combatant, trained in various forms of combat known in the
Shi'ar Galaxy. He is a brilliant swordsman and marksman, with various
forms of Shi'ar weaponry. He wears battle armor of unspecified
composition, and uses Shi'ar knives, swords, and energy guns.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

Raza appears as a member of the Starjammers, this time captained by
Deathbird. He seems to have the same history as his mainstream
counterpart.


Other media

Television

-   Raza Longknife appears in the 5-Part Phoenix Saga of X-Men. He
    appears as a member of the Starjammers.

