RED SONJA, the SHE-DEVIL WITH A SWORD, is a fictional character, a high
fantasy sword and sorcery heroine created by Roy Thomas and Barry
Windsor-Smith, and loosely based on Red Sonya of Rogatino in Robert E.
Howard's 1934 short story "The Shadow of the Vulture". She first
appeared in the  book Conan the Barbarian #23 (February
1973).

Red Sonja became the archetypal fantasy figure of a fierce and beautiful
female barbarian.

She was ranked first in Comics Buyer's Guide's "100 Sexiest Women in
Comics" list.

At the 2013 Emerald City Comic Con, Dynamite announced that Gail Simone
would be writing a new ongoing Red Sonja series. Simone noted in
further interviews that her version is slightly "rebooted," showing the
character's beginnings. Issue #1 of Simone's run was released in July
2013, and reviews were positive. As of February 2014, the series had
run seven issues, with the first six collected in a trade paperback. She
was portrayed by Brigitte Nielsen in the 1985 film Red Sonja.


Origin

Red Sonja's origin story, "The Day of the Sword", first appeared in
Kull and the Barbarians #3 (September 1975) by Roy Thomas, Doug
Moench, and Howard Chaykin. The same story was later redrawn by Dick
Giordano and Terry Austin for The Savage Sword of Conan, issue 78
(July 1982).

In this story, Red Sonja lives with her family in a humble house in the
Western Hyrkanian steppes (this seems to be in modern Ukraine/Russia
though historical Hyrcania is on the borders of modern
Iran/Turkmenistan). When she is just 17, a group of mercenaries kills
her family and burns down their house. Sonja attempts to defend herself,
but can't lift her brother's sword. She is brutally raped by the leader
of the group. Answering her cry for revenge, the red goddess Scáthach
appears to her, and gives her incredible fighting skills, on the
condition that she never lie with a man unless he defeats her in fair
combat.

In the Dynamite comic book series by Michael Avon Oeming, Sonja's
origins are portrayed in "flashbacks" within each issue beginning with
issue #8. The goddess makes her first appearance in this series in issue
#12, which also marks the return of the deadly sorcerer Kulan Gath.

In the Dynamite series by Gail Simone, Sonja's origins are again told in
flashbacks. Sonja is a young teenager in a Hyrkanian village which is
attacked by bandits. After her family is killed, Sonja lures the bandits
into the forest and kills them one by one. No goddess appears in this
version, and Sonja makes no vow of chastity. While she is threatened by
the bandits, she is neither raped nor seriously injured. Another set of
flashbacks shows Sonja as an adult, and indicates that she learned many
of her fighting skills from a fellow prisoner when she was captured and
forced to fight as a gladiator.

Revamped Sonja (2010-2012)

The original Sonja is killed off in issue #34 of the first Dynamite
series. Instead, a new character of the same name, described as a
reincarnation of Red Sonja, takes her place from issue #35 onward.

In her new life, Sonja is described as a distant relative of the
original Red Sonja, taking her name as a good omen, since Sonja had come
to be known as the most beautiful and fearless woman in Hyrkania. A
noblewoman, this incarnation lives a fairly sheltered existence, along
with her sister Verona and her little niece, longing for a child of her
own and waiting for the return of her distant husband, Lord Daniel.

Eventually she is reunited with her husband, but then a pirate crew
(unbeknownst to them called upon by Verona's husband, Lord Lucan, in a
bid for more power) slays him and leaves Sonja on the brink of death.
Sonja is then nursed to health by Osin, in Sonja's previous life a bard
companion and now a gruff swordsman, who accepted the curse of Claw the
Unconquered for himself in exchange for the ability to locate and train
the new incarnation of Red Sonja.

Osin begins her training. He and Sonja find that, even though she has
occasional flashes of her former reflexes, she no longer has access to
the full might of the skills bestowed by Scathach (now an almost
forgotten goddess with waning powers) in her previous life. Despite
this, Sonja is able to learn faster than Osin expects. She decides to
seek revenge covertly, joining Lucan's pirate crew to be closer to
Daniel's assassins.


Red Sonja vs. Red Sonya

Red Sonja was loosely based on Red Sonya of Rogatino, a character from
Robert E. Howard's short story "The Shadow of the Vulture" (The Magic
Carpet, January 1934). Red Sonya was a sword-and-pistol-wielding
supporting character of the late Renaissance. Roy Thomas rewrote "The
Shadow of the Vulture" as a Conan story for ' Conan the
Barbarian #23 (1973). Thomas also based Red Sonja on another Howard
character, Dark Agnes de Chastillon, a sword woman in 16th-century
France.


Bikini armor

Most artists depict Red Sonja wearing a very brief bikini-like costume
of scale armor, usually with boots and gauntlets. As originally drawn by
Barry Smith for "The Shadow of the Vulture" and "The Song of Red Sonja"
in Conan the Barbarian issues 23 and 24 (1973), she did not have as
full a figure and dressed a little more conservatively, in a
long-sleeved mail shirt and short pants of red silk, a style that did
not last long.

As told by Roy Thomas in the introduction of Red Sonja Adventures
Volume 1 (Dynamite Entertainment) Spanish artist Esteban Maroto
submitted an uncommissioned illustration to him when he was editing the
magazine Savage Sword of Conan where he redesigned the character and
for the first time showed her wearing what would become her famous
costume, the silver "bikini armor", which resembled other fantasy
costumes that other Maroto heroines sported in the 1970s. This
illustration had been printed for the first time in Jim Steranko's
magazine Comixscene #5 in black and white. It was reprinted in Savage
Sword of Conan #1, and in  Treasury Edition #15 colored but
poorly reproduced, and finally restored and colored by José Villarrubia
as an alternative cover for the Dynamite Entertainment edition of Red
Sonja #2. Maroto drew her in this costume for a double page spread
illustration in Savage Tales #3 and then for her first solo adventure
in Savage Sword of Conan #1, and John Buscema drew her in this costume
in the same magazine. Buscema drew her again in this costume in issues
43, 44 and 48 of Conan the Barbarian (1974) and Dick Giordano in the
first issue of  Feature (1975) before Frank Thorne took over
from issue 2 (1976). The "bikini" proved popular, becoming well known
through the paintings of Boris Vallejo and others.


Comics bibliography

As a main character

In solo stories in anthologies

And with

-   Spider-Man in " Team-Up" #79 () (The spirit of
    Sonja possesses the body of Mary Jane Watson to face her old enemy
    Kulan Gath). The two meet again in the Spider-Man/Red Sonja
    mini-series co-published by Dynamite Entertainment, in which Kulan
    Gath and Venom are the principal antagonists. The Spider-Man/Red
    Sonja TPB (ISBN 978-0-78-512744-4) collects Spider-Man/Red
    Sonja (2007) #1 - 5 (Oct. 2007 - Feb. 2008) and  Team-Up
    (1972 - 1985 1st Series) #79 (March 1979).
-   Wolverine in "What if?_" Vol. 2, #16 () (Sonja is
    defeated by Wolverine and becomes his mate).
-   Claw the Unconquered in "Red Sonja/Claw" 1-4 (
    Comics/Dynamite Entertainment) (2006).
-   Official Handbook of the Conan Universe, #1 () (1986).

 Feature #4 was reprinted in the book The Superhero Women
edited by Stan Lee. Red Sonja was featured arching among many of
's female characters on the cover painted by John Romita, Sr.

Team-ups with Conan

Sonja and Conan team-up in the crossover Conan/Red Sonja and again in
Red Sonja/Conan.


Novels

Sonja has been featured in several novels by David C. Smith and Richard
L. Tierney with covers by Boris Vallejo:

-   1.  1 The Ring of Ikribu (Ace 1981) (Adapted to comics by Roy
        Thomas and Esteban Maroto in The Savage Sword of Conan
        issues 230-3). Smith has written an unproduced screenplay based
        on this novel.
-   1.  2 Demon Night (Ace 1982)
-   1.  3 When Hell Laughs (Ace 1982)
-   1.  4 Endithor's Daughter (Ace 1982)
-   1.  5 Against the Prince of Hell (Ace 1983)
-   1.  6 Star of Doom (Ace 1983)


In other media

Television

Angelica Bridges portrayed the character in the "Red Sonja" episode of
the 1997–1998 TV series Conan. In 1999, there was a planned TV series
with Sable starring as Red Sonja.

In 2016, Bryan Singer is developing a Red Sonja R-rated TV series.

Film

The character was played by Brigitte Nielsen in the 1985 film Red
Sonja, which also starred Arnold Schwarzenegger as High Lord Kalidor
(originally intended to be Conan). The film was directed by Richard
Fleischer.

Actress Rose McGowan was originally intended to portray Sonja in 2010's
Red Sonja film, but these plans were squelched by injuries that
permanently damaged the mobility and strength of her right arm. In a
February 2011 interview, film producer Avi Lerner stated that Simon West
was hired to direct the film and also mentioned Amber Heard as the
frontrunner to star in the lead role. On February 26, 2015,
Christopher Cosmos was hired to write the film's script. Filmmaker
Mike Le Han has made a video for is pitch of him directing Red
Sonja.


Awards

-   1973 Academy of Comic Book Arts Awards: Best Individual
    Story (Dramatic). The Song of Red Sonja. Written by Roy Thomas and
    pencilled, inked and colored by Barry Smith. The story first
    appeared in Conan the Barbarian issue 24 (March 1972), where two
    panels were censored by John Romita, Sr. The uncensored story was
    reprinted in  Treasury Edition, Volume 1, No. 15, 1977, where
    it was recolored by Glynis Wein and the artwork was slightly cropped
    to fit the page format.
-   Red Sonja publisher Dynamite Entertainment was awarded the title of
    "Best New Publisher" by Diamond Comics Distributors in 2005.


Legal

On June 6, 2006, comic news site Newsarama reported that Red Sonja, LLC
(which holds rights to the Roy Thomas version of the character) filed a
lawsuit on four counts against Paradox Entertainment (which claims
rights to Red Sonya as part of the Howard library, though no renewal
record for The Shadow of the Vulture exists) in US Federal Court in
April 2006. The four counts are claims of copyright infringement,
trademark infringement, trademark dilution, and unfair competition.
The lawsuit was settled in January 2008, on the second day of the
hearing, for a sum of $1 each. Red Sonja LLC paid $1 to Paradox for the
rights to Howard's Red Sonya and permission for the Red Sonja stories to
continue being set in Conan's Hyborian Age. Paradox simultaneously paid
$1 to Red Sonja LLC for the exclusive print-publication rights for The
Shadow of the Vulture now that one of the characters belongs to Red
Sonja LLC.

