REPTIL is a character from . He is best known as a
supporting member on The Super Hero Squad Show and a member of
Avengers Academy in the comics.


Publication history

Reptil first appeared in Avengers: The Initiative Featuring Reptil and
was created by Christos Gage and Steve Uy.

Reptil appeared as a regular character in Avengers Academy from issue
#1 (Aug 2010) through its final issue #39 (Jan 2013).

Reptil appeared in Avengers Arena, a new series by Dennis Hopeless and
Kev Walker.


Fictional character biography

Humberto Lopez is a young boy who had registered with the Fifty State
Initiative and was living with his grandfather. When S.H.I.E.L.D.
scientist Valerie Cooper was putting together a squad to go after
Stegron in his plot to reanimate dinosaur fossils, Tigra was placed in
charge of the squad and was told to recruit Humberto to help them. Tigra
was worried since Humberto hadn't gone through training yet. When going
after Stegron, Humberto explained about his parents and how he got his
powers.

His parents were paleontologists that dug up a crystallized bone when he
was with them in the desert. The medallion had a strange energy in it
that had to do with dinosaurs. Under the codename Reptil, Humberto used
it to obtain the abilities of any dinosaur by thinking of it and even
had an empathy to sense dinosaurs and other reptiles.

Upon arrival in Camp Hammond, Reptil went through training for a couple
of days. While going through training with different members of the
Initiative, Reptil learns the good and bad sides of the Initiative.
Tigra tells Reptil that being a hero is a responsibility. Reptil tells
her that his parents disappeared a year ago on a dig and wants to become
a hero to find them.

With the help of Baron Von Blitzschlag attaching a device to increase
Humbertos's dinosaur empathy, the team locates Stegron. When discovering
that Stegron and his dinosaur herd are going to attack a S.H.I.E.L.D.
base in South Dakota, Tigra's group intercepts them. However, Stegron
took control of Komodo's mind and told her to attack her teammates.
Reptil acts hot-headed during the fight and attacks Stegron, but is
beaten down. Stegron and his dinosaur herd escape. Reptil suffers a mild
concussion and Dr. Cooper tells him that his rash behavior allowed
Stegron to escape and he endangered the lives of his teammates. Tigra
speaks to Dr. Cooper in private and asks her to give Humberto one more
chance to go out on the field. Valerie tells Tigra that if Reptil messes
up, then his career with the Initiative would be over. Tigra speaks to
Humberto a few days later and reminds him to stay balanced and not to
over-commit. She tells him that everyone has problems and that he is
lucky enough to be in a position to learn from other's mistakes and his
own.

When it comes to a S.H.I.E.L.D. base in Wyoming, Stegron's dinosaurs are
taken down by a combination of good teamwork and Reptil's abilities. It
turns out that Stegron was attacking various S.H.I.E.L.D. bases to
locate Moon-Boy (who had been captured from the Savage Land). Stegron
was only targeting Moon-Boy so that he can gain control of Devil
Dinosaur. Reptil tells Tigra that Moon-Boy is innocent and doesn't
deserve this. Tigra tells Reptil there is something they can do but he
has to make a tough choice. Tigra tells the S.H.I.E.L.D. scientist and
agents that Moon-Boy was eaten by one of the dinosaurs and Reptil was
sent home because he just got in the way and was completely useless.

What they don't know is that Reptil managed to fly out with Moonboy and
take him back to his home to Nevada. Tigra meets Humberto there and they
are soon greeted by Ka-Zar and his pet smilodon Zabu. Ka-Zar thanks
Tigra and Reptil for bringing Moon-Boy back to him safely and invites
Reptil to take Moon-Boy back to the Savage Land. After Moon-Boy is
reunited with Devil Dinosaur, Ka-Zar tells Reptil that he will help him
find his parents.

Heroic Age

Soon after this as part of the Heroic Age event, Reptil is captured
and taken to the USA and imprisoned in a government facility. Under the
orders of Norman Osborn, experiments are performed on Reptil in an
attempt to see if enough stress could turn his whole body into a
dinosaur until the word of Norman Osborn's fall. As the agents of the
H.A.M.M.E.R. began destroying all the evidence about Norman's
clandestine and illegal projects, Reptil manages to escape as the agents
were ready to murder him. As Reptil escapes the facility he is
approached by Justice and Hank Pym who invite him to become part of the
Avengers Academy.

Along with the other students, all of them having been somehow affected
by Norman Osborn, Reptil is told that they are the most promising of the
heroes Osborn sought out. During their first training session, the
students notice the staff arguing about them. By accessing secret
computer files, the students realize that, rather than because they
showed promise, they have been chosen for the academy because the staff
believes they have the greatest potential to go rogue and become
supervillains.

During a battle, Mentallo takes control of Reptil's mind and forces him
to fly headfirst towards the ground. The threat of imminent death allows
Reptil to fully transform into a dinosaur. This saves Reptil's life
because Mentallo can't control the dinosaur's reptilian mind. However
Reptil can not control himself in this form either. His teachers think
that his tendency to repress his troubles instead of dealing with them
is the reason for his lack of control. They want him to accept help, but
he is reluctant to talk to staff of the academy. Since the best
superhuman therapist Doc Samson is gone, they ask Jessica Jones to talk
to him. He opens up to her and they talk about many of the things that
have been troubling him including his parents, but he keeps his concerns
about his fellow students and the academy itself private.

When Korvac returns, Reptil and his fellow studies are placed into
future versions of their bodies to fight him by Korvac's estranged
lover, Carina. After Korvac is defeated, Reptil finds himself trapped in
his older body. On a day trip to New York, the students run afoul of
Arcade, during which Reptil meets Spider-Girl, and they quickly become
friends. Spider-Girl attends Academy's "prom night". When she tells
him that she liked him the way he was, Reptil suddenly reverts to his
teenage body. Later, Reptil's brain is switched with his future self, to
try to make the future the same. Turns out in the future, he is with
Finesse and they have a child.

Avengers Arena

As part of the  NOW!_ event, Reptil is abducted alongside Mettle
and Hazmat from the Academy by Arcade in the pages of Avengers
Arena. He is badly injured by a flame attack from an unknown
assailant. Hazmat and X-23 try to bring Reptil to the edge of
quadrant 2 to get medical supplies for Reptil's burns. At that point,
Reptil wakes up and Hazmat is overjoyed. When Hazmat and X-23 tell
Reptil that Chase attacked him, Reptil clears Chase's reputation, saying
that Deathlocket was the one who attacked him. Reptil, Hazmat, and
X-23 are still trying to get to the edge of Quadrant 2 for medical
supplies. Reptil is finally feeling well enough to walk and shape-shift.
Hazmat initially tells him not to expend the energy and that they will
leave no one behind. Just then, Hazmat activates a cloud of smoke,
engulfing the three. When the smoke dissipates, it's revealed that the
smoke is trigger scent and X-23 goes feral, attempting to kill Hazmat
and Reptil. Reptil shape-shifts into a pterodactyl and evacuates Hazmat
away from X-23. Reptil turns into a plesiosaur in order to hunt some
sharks for him and Hazmat to dine upon. The remaining teenage heroes
catch up to them and are invited to have shark steaks with them. Cullen
Bloodstone confronts Reptil about their camping out on the beach while a
war's going off elsewhere. Cammi interjects to agree with Cullen
Bloodstone before saying she's heading out to either find Nico or avenge
her. Reptil heads back to shake Hazmat out of her funk. The issue ends
with everyone agreeing to go back out into Murderworld. As chaos
ensues in Murderworld, Anachronism attacks X-23 only to be attacked by
Reptil. As Hazmat is close to exploding, Reptil swims her out to sea
so that the explosion can't harm anyone. The explosion causes everyone
to stop fighting each other. When the surviving teenage heroes are
rescued, Reptil is fished out of the water by a S.H.I.E.L.D. Agent.


Powers and abilities

Reptil wears a crystallized bone medallion that allows him to take on
the abilities of different dinosaurs just by thinking about them. He
initially cannot fully transform into a complete dinosaur but can
shape-shift various parts of his body into different dinosaur appendages
like a tail to strike enemies, changing his arms into pterodactyl wings,
or having claws like a Raptor. However, after briefly possessing the
body of his future self in a fight against Korvac, he retains the
ability to fully transform. He possesses the strength and ability of
whatever dinosaur he is using and his skin always turns red and scaly
whenever he uses his abilities.

Reptil also has some empathy abilities with dinosaurs. He can sense
other reptiles, but he cannot control them or influence their behavior
at this time.

His amulet is magical in nature and recently embedded itself into his
chest. Not much is known about it except that it is not actually the
source of his powers, but only the catalyst that allows him to use
them.


In other media

Television

-   Reptil first appears in The Super Hero Squad Show episode "To Err
    is Superhuman" voiced by Antony Del Rio as a child and by Carlos
    Alazraqui as an adult. Captain America brings him onto the team as
    its latest member. He does have some doubts after nearly being taken
    down by Abomination and the Wrecking Crew, but manages to overcome
    them to rescue Wolverine. In "A Brat Walks Among Us", he impresses
    Brynnie Bratton by changing his head into a T-rex's and back
    multiple times. He also does a play by play for the heroes and
    villains' struggles to claim Brynnie until Reptil claims her from
    Whirlwind. In "Night in the Sanctorum", it is revealed that he lives
    with his parents and his room is decorated with pictures of every
    superhero (except for Falcon). In "This Forest Green", he is
    talented at making a quesadilla dish called the Reptilla Quesadilla
    Supremos which he shows to Ms. . In "Tales of Suspense" Reptil
    plays golf with Wolverine against MODOK and Abomination. In
    "Mysterious Mayhem at Mutant Academy," Reptil accompanies Wolverine
    to Xavier Academy to meet the X-Men. At the same time, Ringmaster
    infiltrates the school and hypnotizes the X-Men into helping him
    find the Infinity Fractal. Reptil managed to break the hypnosis on
    the X-Men. Wolverine and Reptil don't know it yet, but Ringmaster's
    dowsing rod was later pointing toward Reptil's medallion meaning
    that his medallion could be a Fractal. This is confirmed in "This Al
    Dente Earth" where it turned out that Reptil's medallion was
    actually an Infinity Fractal sent through time. Reptil gives it up
    so that the Infinity Sword can be reforged. At the end of the
    episode, Reptil claims that he couldn't be a hero anymore until
    saying "Brachiosaurus tail" turned him into a full Brachiosaurus as
    Iron Man stated that Reptil's prolonged exposure to the Infinity
    Fractal caused Reptil to retain his powers. In "Too Many
    Wolverines," it is shown that Reptil goes to the same school as
    Amadeus Cho and Angelica Jones (who unbeknownst to Reptil at the
    time is actually Firestar).
-   Reptil appears in the animated Christmas-themed TV special entitled
     Super Hero Adventures: Frost Fight!_, voiced again by
    Anthony Del Rio. In the special, he is a member of the Avengers
    Academy who is partnered with the adult Avengers during a
    "ride-along" program.
-   Reptil will appear in 's Avengers Assemble: Ultron Revolution

Video games

-   Reptil appears in the  Super Hero Squad: The Infinity
    Gauntlet voiced by Antony Del Rio. He and Spider-Man end up
    fighting Abomination when he gets his hands on the Reality
    Infinity Gem.
-   Reptil is a playable character in  Super Hero Squad Online,
    voiced by Antony Del Rio.
-   Reptil appears in the  Super Hero Squad: Comic Combat voiced
    by Antony Del Rio.
-   Reptil is mentioned in the game : Avengers Alliance. It is
    stated in season two that he is one of the minor characters slain as
    part of the evolving plot by the group known as the Circle of Eight.
-   Reptil is a playable character in Lego 's Avengers voiced by
    Antony Del Rio


Trivia

-   It would appear that The Super Hero Squad Show exists within the
    mainstream  Universe (Earth-616). In an issue of Avengers
    Academy, it is noted that none of the students are famous enough to
    be on cartoons, until Striker points out that Reptil is featured on
    a show.

