RICOCHET was an alternate identity used by the fictional superhero
Spider-Man and later adopted by college student JOHNNY GALLO, who
appeared in the  series Slingers.


Peter Parker

When Spider-Man was accused of murder during the Identity Crisis
storyline, he donned several different costumes to disguise his identity
so that he could continue saving lives. One of the personas that he
adopted was Ricochet. Starting with a leather jacket with an R on it,
Parker's wife Mary Jane created a costume and weapons. Ricochet was
similar to Spider-Man, but even more jocular. He relied primarily on his
agility, and posed as a criminal for hire. Using this identity, Parker
collaborated for a time with his old foe Delilah in searching for
information about the new villain Black Tarantula, and they battled
Roughouse and Bloodscream together. In the final fight, Parker used all
four of his new identities, to confuse his foes, and to contradict
speculation that the new heroes were all, in fact, the same person.
Once Parker had cleared his name, he abandoned all of his new personas,
and returned to his Spider-Man identity.

Although the hero Black  later gave Johnny Gallo a duplicate
Ricochet costume, Spider-Man remained in possession of the original.

Powers and abilities

In addition to his regular abilities, the Ricochet costume had flying
discs on the sleeves of its jacket which he used as weapons.


Johnny Gallo

Publication history

Johnny Gallo first appeared as Ricochet in Slingers #0 (Dec. 1998).
The character was created by Joseph Harris and Adam Pollina.

Ricochet appeared as a supporting character in Avengers Academy, first
in issue #21 (Jan. 2012), and occasionally thereafter in the series.

Fictional character biography

JOHNNY GALLO was a college student who lived with his widowed father. He
carefully concealed from both his father and his girlfriend Kathy the
fact that he was a mutant, endowed with superior agility and the ability
to sense danger. The Black  presented Johnny with the Ricochet
costume and the chance to be part of his team, the Slingers. Johnny
accepted, becoming the new Ricochet. He could freely use his powers to
help people without revealing his mutant nature. Much like Spider-Man,
Ricochet enjoyed joking during the heat of battle, even though this
annoyed his teammates, especially team leader Prodigy. Another of the
Slingers, the Hornet, became Ricochet's closest friend, and gave him
special throwing discs to use in battle. Dusk, also a teammate, was
attracted to Ricochet, but he did not have the same feelings for her.
Using his leaping abilities and reflexes, Ricochet fought crime lords,
mutated vermin, and even Spider-Man himself.

Ricochet learned that Black  had made a deal with Mephisto, the
demon king, to recruit the youths who would become the Slingers, and
that Mephisto held Black  captive. Ricochet was the first to
suggest abandoning their "mentor" when offered the chance to save him,
but Hornet convinced him to free Black . Shortly after, the
Slingers disbanded.

Later, Ricochet became disillusioned because his efforts had not earned
him any fame or recognition, and blamed himself for the Hornet's death
at the hands of a brainwashed Wolverine. He joined another team of teen
heroes, Excelsior (now called the Loners), whose goal was to dissuade
other superpowered young people from becoming heroes. During the
aftermath of M-Day, when a majority of mutants lost their powers,
Ricochet was one of the few who kept his abilities.

The Initiative

Johnny is being considered as a "potential recruit" for the Initiative
program, according to Civil War: Battle Damage Report. He is currently
in Los Angeles alongside other "retired" superheroes. He has been seen
(along with the other members of the Loners) as one of the newer,
part-time students at the Avengers Academy.

Powers and abilities

Ricochet has the mutant power of superhuman agility, enabling him to
leap great distances. He has incredible reflexes and coordination which,
combined with his leaping powers, allow him to seemingly bounce off
walls (ricochet, as it were). Ricochet's mutant powers also give him a
"Danger Sense" that functions much like Spider-Man's "Spider-Sense".
Thanks to Hornet, Ricochet has special throwing discs, which he stores
on the sleeves of his jacket. His original discs could bounce off walls
and targets with incredible force. Hornet later gave Ricochet discs that
could explode on impact. Ricochet's super reflexes and coordination
enable him to throw his discs with amazing speed and accuracy.


In other media

Television

-   The Ricochet persona is used by FANCY DAN of the Enforcers in The
    Spectacular Spider-Man.

Video games

-   A Ricochet costume for the Spider-Man (Peter Parker) character in
    Spider-Man: Edge of Time is available as downloadable
    content.
-   Ricochet appears as an additional costume for Spider-Man in The
    Amazing Spider-Man 2 video game. In-game information states that
    "The Amazing Ricochet" is a comic book series that Peter was a fan
    of as a child, with Peter being inspired to create a duplicate of
    Ricochet's costume after finding an appropriately-styled
    leather jacket.




An unrelated Ricochet appears in Hawkman Annual #1. This Ricochet is
an acrobatic criminal with the ability to leap across great distances,
and was genetically engineered for the Sunderland Corporation by Dr.
Moon. He fights Katar Hol and Shayera Thal in Chicago, and loses.

