REBECCA "RIKKI" BARNES is a fictional character appearing in American
comic books published by . First introduced as the
Counter-Earth incarnation of BUCKY during the "Heroes Reborn" event,
Rikki crossed over to Earth-616 in Onslaught Reborn where she operates
as NOMAD.

Rikki Barnes first appears in Captain America (vol. 2) #1 (November
1996) and was created by Jeph Loeb and Rob Liefeld.


Fictional character biography

Heroes Reborn

There are currently two versions of Rikki Barnes existing in the main
 Universe. The first is the version introduced in the Heroes
Reborn series of books. She is native to this world that was created by
Franklin Richards in order to save his family, the Fantastic Four, and
the rest of the heroes who 'died' fighting Onslaught. Franklin was able
to access this world through a blue orb he created. The heroes were
healed and given new memories to adjust to this new reality. Rikki
Barnes was a native to this world and granddaughter to her world's
version of Bucky Barnes.

Her brother John was involved with a radical group led by the Red Skull
and through that contact she met Captain America, eventually becoming
his protégé. He and the other heroes left this world when they realized
the danger they presented to it in Heroes Return, and Rikki stayed
behind. Through various events this world was eventually brought into
the  Universe proper and is now the new Counter-Earth. But the
crossover caused great ecological change and half the world was
submerged underwater. Rikki eventually formed a group of like minded
individuals to bring order and they called themselves the Young Allies.

Counter-Earth

After the events of M-Day, Franklin became the target of an Onslaught
that had been reborn from the mutant energy that had been stolen and
unleashed during the events of that series. In an effort to escape the
villain, Franklin revealed a green orb that contained a copy of the
Heroes Reborn universe; however in this world the Heroes did not leave
so all the damage that happened when the world was moved from its pocket
dimension did not happen. Franklin, while running from Onslaught,
eventually encountered Rikki, who summoned the Avengers to battle
entity.

The fight against Onslaught would lead to the Baxter Building where
Rikki sacrificed herself to push Onslaught into the Negative Zone. Rikki
died willingly but instead of dying she found herself in the main
reality Earth 616.

Hearing that her Captain America was dead she felt lost again and clung
to the only things she had, her heroism and her brother. While not
technically her brother she sought out John Barnes of Earth-616 and
falsified an ID so she could go stay close to him. This John Barnes was
actually a pretty nice guy, so she pretended to be Rikki Baines, his
schoolmate and best friend. Rikki heard that there was a new Captain
America and she desperately tried to meet him, unbeknownst to Rikki that
he was James Buchanan Barnes, the Earth 616 counterpart to her own
grandfather. However, before she could meet him, she was intercepted by
Black Widow, who knew exactly who Rikki was, and cautioned her about
trying to meet Captain America.

While in school she noticed several classmates acting odd and believed
something was up but John felt she was just being paranoid. Bucky tried
to investigate the school at night following the students but instead
she found a wolfman who injured her and ripped her suit. When she got
back to her modest apartment (which she paid for by washing dishes in a
restaurant) she found a brand new Nomad costume and a note that it was
for her. The next day at a coffee shop with John she got up the courage
to ask John about his family. It turned out that his mother died during
childbirth giving birth to his little sister, who also died, and his
father died in a terrorist attack on Philadelphia. It was difficult for
Rikki to hear about how she was never born, but just then a bomb went
off across the street. Flag-Smasher was attacking a military recruitment
facility. John was injured in the explosion but Rikki put on her Nomad
costume to fight Flag-Smasher. She was aided by Falcon who she
remembered, but like the others who left the Heroes Reborn universe he
had no memory of her. Rikki explained who she was and where she was from
and Falcon suggested she continue being Nomad, whoever gave her the
costume thought she could handle it. When John was released from the
hospital Rikki visited him but he mistook her friendship for attraction
and Rikki had to rebuff his advances and tell him she thought of him as
a brother.

John was hurt and refused to speak to her and ended up turning to the
people who were brainwashing the students at their school. Nomad
investigated Desmond Daniels who the brainwashed students were
supporting believing he was behind it. She was then attacked and taken
prisoner by the wolfman and mastermind behind it all. John finally
became concerned when Rikki missed a few days of school while she was
being brainwashed like the others though it proved more difficult to
affect her. She was released and was made to reveal her identity to the
whole school and publicly support the student council nominee Desmond
Daniels. The brainwashing scheme turned out to all be a plot by the
Secret Empire as an experiment to test if they could influence voting
patterns by brainwashing specific members of different groups, causing
the majority to follow their lead.

The Secret Empire wanted to shut down the experiment, but Professor
Power, who was the mastermind behind the experiment, and was pretending
to be a politics teacher at the school, refused to shut the experiment
down. Allowing the entire school to riot. He intended to kill Rikki but
she managed to escape and fight off the super-villain and his wolfman
henchman. The Young Avengers arrived to assist Rikki and the police with
crowd control and defuse the situation. John realized the students were
brainwashed to follow Desmond Daniels, who was himself an innocent pawn,
and it was actually another student Matt Surman that was inciting the
riot. Rikki got Desmond to calm the rioters, while John confronted Matt.
Matt shot John and Rikki; Rikki's uniform protected her, but John was
not so lucky and he his wounds proved to be fatal. Rikki later visited
John's grave back in their home town of Philadelphia. She didn't blame
Matt for the murderer, since was a result of the brainwashing from the
Secret Empire. It was then that Captain America arrived and spoke to her
for the first time. He said Barnes was a great name and that she
shouldn't let this affect her duty because she'd make Steve Rogers
proud. She asked if it was him that gave her the Nomad costume which he
replies that he had not, and assumed that she had made it herself.
Meanwhile Black Widow, who had been watching the two interact, smiled,
suggesting it had been her that had given the costume to Rikki.

Rikki begins a new life as Nomad in the limited series Nomad: Girl
Without A World, by Sean McKeever and David Baldeon. and this led
to a Nomad back-up story from the same creative team behind the "Two
Americas" storyline.

This story introduced the character to Anya Corazon, which paved the way
for McKeever and Baldeon to use these characters as the core of a new
team and series Young Allies.

During the team's first mission, Rikki and Araña are captured by a team
of teenaged supervillains who call themselves the Bastards of Evil (as
they are all supposedly illegitimate children of famous super-villains,
although some are in fact too old to have been born after their
alleged parents gained superhuman abilities and are thus either
misinformed or pretending about their parentage). In order to establish
themselves as a viable threat, the Bastards link up a video feed of the
bound and gagged Rikki and Araña across New York City, with the intent
of executing the heroines in front of a massive audience. While Araña
distracts the villains, Rikki breaks the bonds from her wrists and
enables the girls' escape. When the rest of the Allies arrive, they
promptly defeat the Bastards, with Rikki taking down Pyro's son Ember.
Just as the Allies are about to celebrate their victory, Rikki is
attacked and thrown through a wall by a newly arrived villain named the
Superior. After a fierce confrontation, Rikki and her teammates
defeat the Bastards, and turn them over to the Avengers.

Onslaught Unleashed

Rikki recently began having strange and vivid nightmares from deep in
the jungles of South America, the problem appears to be that they may
not be dreams at all when her teammate Toro is kidnapped just like she
dreamed. Later while investigating Corporate Conglomerate Roxxon for
illegal weapons systems, the Secret Avengers come across the plans for
Project Power, a new and incredibly deadly power source being secretly
developed in the Colombian rainforest. As the Secret Avengers
investigate the facility, Beast and Ant-Man find the source of the
mysterious energy source to be from the Negative Zone. As Rikki races
inside the facility to locate Toro, she stumbles into the control room
instead, where the sinister voice of her dreams beckons, clawing his way
out of exile in the Negative Zone, the psychic beast known as Onslaught
returns to the main universe.

Possessing Rikki's body, Onslaught reveals that the real Rikki had in
fact died in the Negative Zone and she was just a construct made by
Onslaught himself so he could use the energy he had stored in her as an
anchor to pull himself back into Earth-616. The revelation that Rikki
had been sent to Earth-616 solely to serve as Onslaught's tether forced
Rikki to fight back, if only to prove he was wrong. Eventually, Rikki
had Gravity kill her so that Onslaught could not return and destroy
Earth. However, Steve later has a similar dream to Rikki's,
suggesting that something of her still remains.

What if?: Age of Ultron

A middle-age version of Rikki appears in the future world of issue 3. As
this came out after Onslaught Unleashed this suggests that the character
may return to life in the main  Universe.


Powers and abilitites

Rikki is a natural athlete who was trained by S.H.I.E.L.D. and Captain
America. She is a gifted fighter, marksman and acrobat with the
familiarity with technological devices of a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent.

Weapons and equipment

As Bucky she wore a bulletproof costume modeled after the original
Bucky. She also made use of a vibranium-photonic energy shield along
with vibranium soled boots that allowed her to run up walls, move
silently, leap greater distances and land from great heights. She also
wielded a pistol.

As Nomad, she made use of much of the same equipment with a new costume
based on the Nomad identity once worn by Steve Rogers. She retains the
vibranium-photonic shield and now uses throwing discs used by previous
Nomads. It is possible she still possesses the vibranium soled boots,
though she no longer uses the pistol in her new identity.

