RISQUE (GLORIA DOLORES MUÑOZ) is a fictional character, a mutant in the
 Universe. Her first appearance was in X-Force vol. 1 #51.


Fictional character biography

Early life

Risque grew up in Florida to a Seminole mother and Cuban father. As
established in a textual flashback in X-Force Vol 1 #66, she used to
spend much of her time at the Wacky World Amusement park with her
father. After her powers manifested at thirteen, she abandoned her
suddenly embarrassing dad and spent time at the park flirting with older
boys. She even acquired a job there, but was fired after a fortnight for
smoking in costume behind the Astro-World Tilt-A-Whirl. She then got
into some trouble, which the mysterious Sledge helps extricate her from
in return for doing him a favor.

Rendezvous with Warpath

Risque has to send a message to Warpath intimating that she has
knowledge regarding the Camp Verde massacre. She meets Warpath in New
York, where she introduces herself to him from the shadows, plants a
kiss on his lips, and leaves.

When Selene makes her move against the Externals, killing those who
remain, Risque arrives and pulls the wounded Warpath out of Gideon's
facility before Selene can drain his life. Risque takes James to
Florida to recuperate and they fall for each other. Finally, James
desires to get back to his friends, and the duo arrives just in time to
defend X-Man from the genetic mastermind villain, Mister Sinister. An
ancient expert in mutancy, Sinister found Risque "fascinating" as "a
mutant unknown".

Risque and Warpath's new romance was met with displeasure from Warpath's
previous love interest and current teammate, Siryn. Warpath previously
felt romantic feelings for Siryn but as Risque thinks to herself; "Now
she resents me for taking James away from her."

Warpath intends to remain at the X-Mansion, but the duo fights the Blob
and Mimic in New York City. Risque finally fulfills her "mission" by
slipping a sleeping pill into Jimmy's drink. She takes him to Sledge's
junkyard in Detroit, Michigan. There, Sledge offers Warpath
information concerning his tribe's murder in exchange for a favor of his
own.

Fleeing X-Force

[Risque on the run from X-Force. Taken from X-Force v.1 #66.] Risque
fled town knowing Warpath's teammates in X-Force would be on her trail.
Paying by cash for her living arrangements to keep her untraceable, the
X-Men's mutant-detecting machine Cerebro eventually tracks her down in
the apartments surrounding Wacky World, the amusement park she knew by
heart. Seeing X-Force in her motel room, Risque flees to Wacky World
itself. Once again underestimating the lengths X-Force would go for her
capture, she is blindsided by the mutant Caliban. She escapes from
Caliban on the monorail and hides with two willing young male
collaborators, who enjoy the intrigue Risque brings. Caliban finally
catches up with her in a maintenance tunnel but he collapses. This was
due to numerous biological tampering done to him over the years. Risque
initially desires to flee before calling for 9-1-1, but her conscience
forces her to stay behind and tend to the injured mutant. Her reluctance
to leave when she had the chance caused her to be captured by the
remaining members of X-Force, who initially believe she has harmed
Caliban.

By the time X-Force arrives, a two and a half hour ride in their
Pacrat, Warpath reveals that he was not held captive and was ready to
leave, with Sledge's offer fresh on his mind. Risque tries to make
amends with Warpath but to no avail; pleading her case concerning her
debt to Sledge does not work. Unfortunately, her betrayal of Warpath's
trust mars their relationship, as she had feared it would. As their
relationship seemed to be finished, a joyful Siryn smirks in the
distance.

Reunion with X-Force

Months later, Risque ran into X-Force again while she was helping the
Vanisher steal the Heart of Pele, a sacred Hawaiian gem. However, when
she is attacked by one of the Lava Men, Warpath saves her and gets
X-Force involved in the quest for the stone. They eventually return the
stone to Pele, the Hawaiian goddess of the volcano. This prevents the
Lava Men from using the Gem to activate ancient 'Deviant' machinery.
Every volcano on Earth would have erupted if the Lava Men plan
succeeded.

It turns out, though, that 'Risque' was in fact Pele herself and the
real Risque, who had come to find the Heart, was still asleep on the
beach. The team reunites with the real Gloria Muñoz and vacation on the
island together.

Shortly after the incident in Hawaii, the psychic and physical
connection between Danielle Moonstar and Arcadia spawns a new Demon Bear
that rampaged through Sledge's warehouse. Risque is sent to help X-Force
defeat the bear in San Francisco. Unfortunately, she is of very little
help, and spends most of the time flirting with Warpath.

X-Corporation and "Death"

After the Xavier Institute became outed as a mutant organization, Risque
was apparently contacted by Charles Xavier, who made her part of his
X-Corporation monitoring mutant rights violations in Asia. Risque finds
out about a company trafficking in mutant body parts. Unfortunately, she
was ambushed by the U-Men, followers of John Sublime, founder of the
Third Species movement. Risque did manage to compress one of her
attackers into the size of a baseball, but could not fend them all off
and was slain. Her death scene was never seen on-panel nor was a body
ever shown, but her seeming demise was supported by her former X-Force
ally and X-Corporation teammate Domino.

Possible Return

Risque was among a list of possible candidates to join the superhero
group the Lady Liberators. It is not known if this is the original
Risque or a new hero re-using her moniker.

Necrosha

Risque is among the dead mutants resurrected by the transmode virus that
Selene sends to attack X-Force. She is one of the few mutants who
regained control of her body and was able to warn Warpath to escape
before succumbing to the virus and resuming her assault. Gloria's
final fate is uncertain as it is unknown whether she was among the
mutants teleported to Genosha by Blink to serve as sacrifices for the
newly-deified Selene or if she was among the mutants who managed to
escape Utopia.


Powers and abilities

Risque can create localized gravity fields to affect inorganic matter,
placing a gravitronic charge within an object to compress it into a
small, high-density mass and then maneuver that gravity charge to propel
the object at high velocities. She could also use her powers to project
concussive blasts. As part of her gravity-manipulation powers, she could
also levitate the objects she was compressing.

