ROM (also known as ROM THE SPACE KNIGHT or ROM: SPACEKNIGHT) is a
fictional character, a cosmic superhero appearing in American comic
books published by . Rom first appeared in Rom
Spaceknight #1 (December 1979) by Bill Mantlo and Sal Buscema.

In, July, 2015, IDW Publishing announced that they would publish a new
Rom comic book series.


Publication history

Toy

"Rom The Space Knight" was a toy co-created by Scott Dankman, Richard C.
Levy, and Bryan L. McCoy (US Patent #4,267,551). It was sold to
Parker Brothers, and was the inspiration for the comic book series.
The toy was originally named COBOL after the programming language but
was later changed to "Rom" after ROM (read-only memory) by Parker
Brothers executives.

The toy set a precedent for the game publishing company, which up until
that time had only ever produced board games. As this was a new venture
for the company and given that electronic toys were still very new, a
decision was made to produce the figure as cheaply as possible. As a
result, the final product had very few points of articulation, and twin
red LEDs served as Rom's eyes instead of the originally envisioned
green, which were more expensive to produce.

Not long after its debut, Rom appeared in the corner box of the cover of
Time magazine's December 10, 1979, issue. It was featured in the
interior article, "Those Beeping, Thinking Toys," which decried Rom's
lack of articulation and predicted it would "end up among the dust balls
under the playroom sofa." [Rom toy in box.] ROM was licensed to
Palitoy in the United Kingdom to extend the "Space Adventurer" line of
Action Man, appearing in their 1980 catalog.

Comic book series

To build interest in the toy, Parker Brothers licensed the character to
 which created a comic book featuring Rom. The comic
expanded on the premise that Rom was a cyborg and gave him an origin,
personality, set of supporting characters and villains, as well as
interaction within the  Universe. The comic was written by Bill
Mantlo and initially illustrated by artist Sal Buscema. Buscema
stated in a 2010 interview that "I liked the character. And I liked what
they did with it. I thought the concept was quite good. It was unique.
It made it attractive to do. I almost hate to say this, but it was
pretty easy to draw, too."

Ultimately, the toy failed and only sold 200,000 to 300,000 units in the
US, with creator McCoy blaming the failure on poor packaging and
marketing. Parker Brothers subsequently abandoned the line.

The comic book outlasted the toy which it was created to support. The
series lasted for 75 issues (not including the four annual issues) from
December 1979 to February 1986 and Rom's regular encounters with
mainstream heroes and villains establishing him as part of 
continuity.


Fictional character biography

In the comic book, Rom is more than a simple cyborg, being originally
from a utopian society on a planet called Galador. The series details
Rom's defeat of an invading alien race known as Dire Wraiths, and the
continuation of their battle on Earth and other planets. Unlike the
technologically advanced Galadorian civilization, the Dire Wraiths rely
primarily on dark magic and their power to change their appearance.

Some years before Rom's arrival on Earth, Galador is threatened by a
fleet of ships manned by the Dire Wraiths. Galador's ruler, the Prime
Director, calls for volunteers to be transformed into cyborg warriors
called 'Spaceknights', so that they can defend the planet from the
invaders. The volunteers are promised that their "humanity" (that is,
the body parts that would be removed to accommodate the bionic armor)
would be preserved and restored to them after the danger was over. Rom
was the first to volunteer, and was transformed into a large, silver
humanoid that at first glance appeared to be totally robotic. Rom was
given Galador's greatest weapon - the Neutralizer - which on one setting
could banish the Wraiths into the dimension known as Limbo forever.
Inspired by his example, a total of 1,000 Galadorians volunteered and
were transformed into Spaceknights, each with his or her own unique
armor, powers and code names.

The Spaceknights succeeded in stopping the Wraith invasion, although Rom
decided to follow the remnants of the fleet back to their home planet –
Wraithworld – which orbited a black sun. The Wraiths panicked, and after
a futile counter-attack abandoned the planet and scattered throughout
space. Unable to stop Rom, the Wraiths successfully used their
sorcery to trick him into allowing their escape. Rom now felt
responsible for spreading the Wraiths’ evil across the universe, and
swore he would not reclaim his humanity until all Dire Wraiths had been
vanquished. His fellow Spaceknights, including comrades Starshine and
Terminator, swore the same oath and left Galador.

Earthfall

Rom arrives on Earth 200 years later, and it is at this point that the
Rom series begins. Landing near the fictional town of Clairton, in West
Virginia, United States, Rom encounters a young woman named Brandy
Clark. After seeing Rom deal with the Wraiths firsthand, Brandy comes to
understand his mission and helps to hide Rom from prying eyes. This
becomes necessary once Rom uses the Neutralizer in public, as witnesses
only see a "killer robot" disintegrating innocents - they do not realize
that Rom is in fact banishing Wraiths in human form. In time Brandy's
boyfriend, Steve Jackson, helps Rom in his mission, although when Brandy
began to fall in love with the noble Rom her relationship with Steve was
strained.

During his time on Earth, Rom fights and banishes thousands of Wraiths.
The increasingly desperate Wraiths create new foes for Rom, such as
Firefall - a fusion of human and Spaceknight; the sorcerous
Hellhounds; and robotic Watchwraiths. Two of Rom's greatest foes
are the aptly named Hybrid (a hideous result of a union
between Wraith and human), and Mentus (a suit of Spaceknight armor
occupied by the dark side of the Prime Director's psyche). Many
other opponents were more traditional and hailed from the 
Universe proper, such as the Mad Thinker, the Space Phantom, and
Galactus and his herald Terrax. He encountered such heroes as
the X-Men, Power Man and Iron Fist, the Fantastic Four,
Nova, the Thing, and the Hulk. Rom was one of the many
heroes transported into an arena in space for the Contest of Champions
though he was not chosen to participate.

At one stage, Rom's war against the Wraiths takes a turn for the worse -
a new breed of Wraith appeared on Earth, and appeared to be far deadlier
than the first variety. It is later revealed that these are female
Wraiths, who rely on sorcery, as opposed to the weaker males who placed
their faith in science. Unlike the males, the female Wraiths chose not
to act in secrecy and openly attack Clairton while Rom is away, killing
everyone (including Steve Jackson and superhero ally the Torpedo) with
the exception of Brandy Clark. Furthermore, they attack S.H.I.E.L.D.'s
mobile headquarters, the Helicarrier, which gave Earth authorities clear
evidence of the existence and threat of the Dire Wraiths. The Dire
Wraiths came into conflict with the Avengers and the
X-Men as well. Rom manages to banish all Dire Wraiths on Earth
to Limbo with the aid of his super-powered allies and members of the
U.S. military.

[The female Dire Wraiths arrive on Earth in Rom #47 (October 1983).
Cover art by Bill Sienkiewicz]

Endgame

Rom leaves Earth soon after the battle and returns to Galador. Unknown
to Rom, Brandy had accidentally met the entity called the Beyonder, and
asked him to transport her to Galador. The Beyonder complied and
Brandy found herself on Galador, now a war-torn world occupied by a new
generation of cyborg-Spaceknights. Created to defend Galador in the
absence of the first Spaceknights, this next generation of cyborgs
became corrupted by their power, and feeling superior to normal
Galadorians, massacred the entire race. In an act of sheer spite the
new Spaceknights destroyed the frozen remains of the originals. Rom
arrived too late and could only save Brandy. Enraged, Rom summoned
the original Spaceknights and together they destroyed the traitors. Rom
then made a surprising discovery - his original humanity persisted
within the entombed body of Terminator. Reclaiming it, Rom became human
again and finally admitted his love for Brandy. The two chose to remain
on Galador, with the intent of repopulating the planet. The remaining
Spaceknights, their humanity now lost, set out to explore the universe,
except for a few others that remained on Galador to protect Rom and
Brandy.

During the wedding of Rick Jones to Marlo Chandler, the now human Rom
returned to Earth, together with Brandy, as guests at the ceremony, and
Rom greeted the Hulk with a friendly handshake.

Spaceknights miniseries

In the Spaceknights miniseries (Oct. 2000 - Feb. 2001) written by Jim
Starlin it is revealed that Rom took the name Artour a reference to
Brandy's love of Arthurian legends, and perhaps in memory of his own
encounter with King Arthur's ghost, and that he and Brandy had two
sons. Rom himself is not actually seen in the series, nor is he
mentioned by that name or shown in his spaceknight form (no doubt to
skirt the fact that  no longer held the license from Parker
Brothers, which had retained the copyrights on Rom's name and armored
likeness); his ship is attacked off panel just prior to the start of the
story, with Rom himself missing and presumed dead.


Powers and abilities

Rom’s armor was composed of the Galadorian metal PLANDANIUM. It is
extremely durable, even going so far as to stand up to Wolverine's
adamantium claws. It was shown to be damaged from time to time,
demonstrating that plandanium is not indestructible. The armor had
self-repair capabilities, though it took several weeks to repair major
damage. It provided him with superhuman strength, flight, and the
ability to travel through space via backpack rockets. It allowed him to
breathe in any atmosphere and survive in the vacuum of space. In
Spaceknight form, Rom also did not need to eat or sleep. Controls near
the torso allowed Rom to lower the armor's temperature to well below
zero. The armor stored a "solar charge" that could be used as a weapon
and could drain power sources by mere contact. It gave him the ability
to summon three pieces of equipment stored in "subspace":

NEUTRALIZER : Rom's primary weapon, which is designed to banish Dire Wraiths to Limbo by opening a dimensional portal. Unfortunately, the process leaves considerable waste material (ash, etc.) that makes it appear to an uninformed observer that the weapon kills its target. In addition, the Dire Wraiths unsuccessfully explored the possibility of examining the gun to find some means of returning its victims to the normal dimension. This handheld weapon could fire energy beams that can be deadly at a high setting if Rom chose to select it and it can neutralize various forms of energy. This device was designed so that only Rom would be able to discharge it. The mutant Wolverine once tried to use the weapon and received a numbing blast of energy feedback. Rom's Neutralizer would inspire a similar creation by the mutant Forge when the US government tasked him with constructing a weapon against the Wraith horde. Forge's neutralizer for a time cost Storm her mutant abilities.
ANALYZER : Allowed Rom to see shape-changing Dire Wraiths in their true form and could assess the energy and potential of any object/entity. It could be used on an item which represented a world, such as a globe, and would display lights corresponding to Dire Wraith infestations at that point on the planet. Unfortunately, the device resembles a handgun, and Dire Wraith imposters have taken advantage of this fact to fool others into thinking that Rom is attacking them. Rom once arranged an ally to have the equivalent kind of vision, but the Dire Wraiths counteracted that by magically blocking his mind from recognizing that particular visual data. Regardless, Rom allowed SHIELD to examine the Analyzer in hope of creating equivalent devices among the Spaceknight's human allies.
UNIVERSAL TRANSLATOR : Allowed Rom to instantly learn the language of any creature, irrespective of their origin. This device was used to scan and store printed information from an encyclopedia in Rom's memory banks for future use.


Other versions

As  no longer possesses the licensing rights to Rom from
Parker Brothers, the character is not allowed to appear in his armored
form.  has found ways to work around this dilemma.

-   In 2000,  published a five-issue SpaceKnights series which
    featured a hero named Prince Tristan (codenamed "Liberator") in a
    redesigned version of Rom's armor. He fought alongside other
    SpaceKnights named after some of the more popular ones from the
    original series.
-   In the Captain  series featuring Genis-Vell, Rick Jones was
    shown to own a toaster in the shape of Rom's helmet.
-   In the alternate world of Earth X, Rom had ironically been banished
    to Limbo and was battling against the very Dire Wraiths he had
    sent there. Rom was seen in human form wielding his Neutralizer and
    using his chest-plate as a shield. He was referred to only as "the
    Greatest Spaceknight."
-   In The Avengers #12.1, the super-villain group, The Intelligencia,
    was seen working with a 'spaceknight' that had actually been hosting
    the Ultron A.I.


Reprint controversies

Legal issues regarding the reprinting of Rom guest appearances in other
comics have led to complications. Brief cameos such as a holographic
version of the character appearing as a distraction in Uncanny X-Men
#187 have remained intact as have the Rom entries in the Essential
 trade paperbacks for the original Official Handbook of the
 Universe and its deluxe edition sequel. The cover of the
Essential Official Handbook of the  Universe removed Rom from
the artwork used for the cover of the collection.

Several appearances by Rom have been outright omitted. Power Man and
Iron Fist #73, which featured Rom was omitted from Essential Power Man
and Iron Fist vol. 1, and similarly  Two-in-One #99 was omitted
from Essential  Two-in-One vol. 4, while The Incredible Hulk:
Regression trade paperback features a heavily edited version of The
Incredible Hulk #296, removing Rom's entire appearance in the issue.
Furthermore, Rom #72, which was a tie-in to the Secret Wars II
series, was omitted from the Secret Wars II Omnibus.


In other media

Film

-   On December 15, 2015, The Hollywood Reporter has reported that both
    Hasbro and Paramount are creating a movie universe combining Rom
    with G.I. Joe, Micronauts, Visionaries: Knights of the Magical
    Light and M.A.S.K._ together. On April 21, 2016, The Hollywood
    Reporter has reported that Michael Chabon, Brian K. Vaughan, Nicole
    Perlman, Lindsey Beer, Cheo Coker, John Francis Daley & Jonathan
    Goldstein, Joe Robert Cole, Jeff Pinkner, Nicole Riegel and Geneva
    Robertson has joined the writers room.

Television

-   ROM was intended to appear in Avengers Earth's Mightiest Heroes
    possible season 3 or in the original plans for the last 12 episodes
    before Jeph Loeb became involved as seen in concept art for
    the show.

