RUBY SUMMERS is a fictional character in the  Universe
first appearing in the one-shot X-Factor: Layla Miller.


Fictional character biography

Ruby is the daughter of Scott Summers and Emma Frost from the dystopian
alternate future Earth-1191.

Meeting Layla Miller

Ruby has been living in the ruins of Atlantic City with her father,
Scott Summers for decades. When Layla Miller and a man named Dwayne show
up one day looking for the now aged Cyclops. Ruby attacks them and after
finding out who Layla Miller is, brings her to her father, who has been
waiting to see Layla for decades. After a conversation with Cyclops,
Layla convinces Ruby to meet up with a new mutant named Linqon. Together
they start the Summers Rebellion.

Years later

Years after the start of the rebellion, Ruby rescues the, now aged,
Layla and Jamie Madrox, whom Layla had just brought into the future from
the past, from a sentinel attack. She is not pleased to find out
Layla disobeyed her in bringing Madrox to the future. She later
brings Scott and Layla to an old, broken down hotel where an old,
fragile Doctor Doom currently resides. They question him about time
travel when they are attacked by sentinels, only to be saved by Trevor
Fitzroy.

She has also become very close with Layla, developing a very sisterly
relationship.

Ruby is seen next when an aged Doctor Doom brings Cortex to their time,
however reprogrammed, and forces the Madrox dupe to attack the mutants.
Although initially at a disadvantage, as Doom has taken control Cyclops
due to his cyborg nature, she manages to defeat Doom, Cortex, and
Cyclops. Doom escapes and Ruby swears to kill him.

While Madrox battles Cortex, Ruby asks Layla to revive Fitzroy who was
killed during Cortex's initial assault. Although Layla does not think
that it is a good idea she complies since Ruby persuades her that they
may take control of their own destiny.

Future Imperfect

An alternate version of Ruby Summers appears in the Future Imperfect
limited series, a tie-in to 's Secret Wars event. She is a member
of the resistance against the Maestro's regime.


Powers and abilities

Ruby has the power to emit force beams from her eyes, like her
father, but hers are black and take 93 seconds to regenerate. She
also has the ability to transform her body into organic ruby similar to
her mother's diamond form. This ruby form halts the aging process
and allows her to survive without sustenance, but due to fear that she
might "age nearly seventy years in seconds" if she reverts, she has
remained in this form for decades.

