SAGE, also known as TESSA, is a fictional character in the 
universe. She has most often been associated with the X-Men and the
Hellfire Club, whom she spied upon for Professor Charles Xavier.

A mutant, Sage possesses a number of mental abilities and was originally
presented as the personal assistant to the Hellfire Club’s Sebastian
Shaw, but an extended retcon revealed that she was one of the first
mutants discovered by Professor Xavier. She has been a member of the
original X-Men teams, Excalibur, the Exiles, and a cross-dimensional
X-Men team similar to the Exiles known as the X-Treme X-Men.


Publication history

Tessa first appeared in The X-Men #132 (April 1980), and was created
by Chris Claremont and John Byrne.


Fictional character biography

Sage's exact country of origin remains unrevealed, but she claims to
have come from a war-torn region. By the time she reaches young
adulthood, she is living by herself in Afghanistan. Although she tries
to keep out of the conflicts between the rebels and the government, she
is willing to use her guns and other weapons on anything that poses a
threat. One day, she feels called to a cave which is considered haunted
by the locals. She hears a voice in her head that guides her deeper into
the cavern, where she finds Charles Xavier, who is trapped underneath a
pile of debris. His legs have been crushed during his battle with the
alien Lucifer. Xavier senses that Sage is a mutant, and explains to her
what her abilities mean. Sage says that this was about the same time as
he located Beast, but in other accounts he found Sage first.

Sage helps Xavier and tries to get him to a hospital, but during their
journey down the mountain, they come across a United Nations relief
convoy under attack by robbers, who have raped and killed the UN
workers. Sage exacts revenge on their behalf and kills the robbers
though she despises herself for being so brutal.

The Hellfire Club

Years later, Sage meets up again with Xavier, who at the time is
recruiting the original X-Men. Instead of being chosen for the first
X-Men class, she is sent to spy on the Hellfire Club, something that
returns to haunt her in the following years. Xavier sends her to the
Hellfire Club as Tessa, to keep watch on Sebastian Shaw.

While working there, she encounters Psylocke and Jean Grey, as well as
Emma Frost, who at this point is the White Queen. While she is able to
successfully warn Psylocke away from the Hellfire Club, Tessa is later
remorseful that she is unable to similarly prevent the corruption of
Phoenix into the Black Queen. This transformation is a key factor,
ultimately, in the creation of Dark Phoenix.

Sometime during Tessa's time with the Hellfire Club, Sebastian Shaw and
Emma Frost dare the man known as Elias Bogan to wager in a game of
poker. Though he holds no official rank in the Inner Circle, the
telepathic Bogan is one of the Club’s most important and powerful
members; his patronage guarantees success in the organization. By the
terms of the wager, if Shaw loses, Frost would "belong" to Bogan, but if
Bogan's agent loses, then his fortune would be turned over to Shaw.
Mostly due to Tessa's advice and analytical skills, Bogan loses the game
and is forced to honor the wager. Having never lost before, Bogan
harbors a grudge against Tessa.

During the X-Men's initial conflicts with the Hellfire Club, Tessa
maintains primarily a background role and is seen as only Shaw's
unusually intelligent assistant. Hints of her more complex role are
indicated when she and Xavier are kidnapped by Donald Pierce, a renegade
member of the club, with grudges against both organizations. Based on
the interactions between Xavier and Tessa, it is unclear whether he is
helping to maintain her cover or whether he feels as if he has lost his
agent, since the interaction between the two is kept impersonal. The
two are rescued by the nascent team of New Mutants, and Tessa takes
Pierce into custody on behalf of the Hellfire Club.

Tessa's next notable interaction with Xavier's students happens months
later when the X-Men and Hellfire Club are hunting down Rachel Summers
after her attempted murder of Selene, the newly installed Black Queen.
In the middle of their fight, both teams are taken by surprise by
Nimrod, a mutant-hunting robot from the future. Recognizing the more
immediate threat, the two groups join forces and are able to severely
damage Nimrod. The X-Men and Hellfire Club each sustain heavy losses and
are forced to flee the scene quickly. Tessa offers Storm and the X-Men
temporary sanctuary with the Club, which later results in Magneto and
Storm jointly accepting the role of White King in the Inner Circle.

After the Hellfire Club

Magneto becomes more actively involved with the Hellfire Club after the
X-Men's supposed death in Dallas at the climax of the Fall of the
Mutants. Tensions between Magneto and Sebastian Shaw grow until,
finally, Magneto ousts Shaw from the group. Although Tessa remains with
the Hellfire Club after his departure, her role diminishes. Shortly
thereafter, the Upstarts begin hunting down mutant leaders, starting
with former and current leaders of the Inner Circle. Shinobi Shaw
seemingly murders his father, Sebastian; Emma Frost is put into a coma.
Tessa continues to serve as Shinobi's assistant, much as she had with
his father, and she also begins using her telepathic skills more openly.
After Tessa prevents Shinobi from solidifying his hold on the Hellfire
Club, however, the younger Shaw ceases working with her.

Sebastian Shaw returns after a period of recuperation with the
extradimensional Holocaust at his side. Seeking assistance in
controlling this powerful mutant, Shaw calls Tessa back into his
service. Her minor telepathic abilities are able to keep him in check
since most telepaths in his native reality had been killed and he had
not developed psychic defenses. The two lose Holocaust, though, when
Onslaught decides he needs that mutant for his own purposes. Selene and
her new amnesiac thrall Madelyne Pryor join with Shaw to regain their
roles in the Hellfire Club. Suspicious of Pryor, Tessa attempts to
telepathically probe her while she is sleeping. Unwittingly reawakening
Madelyne's memories of her tragic life and first death with the X-Men,
Tessa is quickly overwhelmed and nearly killed. The only thing that
stays Madelyne's hand is that Tessa's murder would have caused
unnecessary complications. Instead, Pryor merely removes all memory of
the conflict.

Six-month gap

Although it has been years since Tessa had outwitted him, Bogan kidnaps
Sage and mentally dominates her. This possession permanently scars her
below the eyes. Bogan offers Tessa back to Shaw for everything he has.
Shaw refuses and cuts his ties with Tessa. However, the X-Men become
aware of Tessa's predicament, and Storm is able to rescue her.

Out of gratitude, she stays with the X-Men, primarily in a support
capacity, and resumes use of the name Sage. Fearful of mental domination
by Bogan or another powerful telepath, Sage relinquished the use of her
telepathic power and focused her force of will to maintain her mental
shields. With the X-Men, Sage acts as a living computer, able to
remember everything she sees and hears, and provide analysis.

X-Treme X-Men

After the X-Men learn of Destiny's prophetic diaries, the Books of
Truth, Storm forms a splinter group that leaves the X-Mansion to hunt
down the missing volumes. Sage is one of her first recruits. While the
X-Treme team primarily makes use of her analytical skills, her mutant
power to "jump-start" other mutants' abilities is used in a few critical
junctures: saving the Beast's life by mutating him into a more
animalistic, feline form; allowing Rogue temporary access and control of
all powers she had ever absorbed; restoring Gambit's powers after
injuries had overloaded them, and unlocking Slipstream's latent
teleportation powers. During this period she forms a strong working
relationship with Bishop in solving cases, most notably when the two
briefly return to the X-Mansion to help investigate the attempted murder
of Emma Frost.

After the prophecies of the diaries are determined to be (apparently)
invalid, the group still remains separate from the main team of X-Men
due to differences in philosophy with Xavier. Storm petitions various
world governments for official recognition as a mutant unit for policing
mutant activity. Granted this authority, her unit is dubbed the X-Treme
Sanctions Executive, and Sage becomes an officer of the X.S.E. Although
initially more mobile, the X.S.E. eventually returns to the X-Mansion as
its base of operations. Sage's tenure with the team is abruptly ended
when she rejoins the Hellfire Club to keep an eye on Sunspot (who has
become the new Lord Imperial) to make sure he is not corrupted by power
as Sebastian was.

New Excalibur

For reasons yet unknown, Sage leaves Sunspot's side and travels to
England to join forces with the newly reformed New Excalibur. She helps
them on various missions such as battling the Shadow King, and returning
to ancient Camelot to prevent it from being prematurely destroyed. In a
more subtle use of her observation abilities, Sage is instrumental in
her teammate Nocturne's recovery from a debilitating stroke. [Sage as
Diana Fox, after beheading an alternate Cyclops. Art by Pat Olliffe.] In
order to learn more about a mysterious new foe, Albion, and thwart his
attempt to conquer Britain, Sage creates the new cover identity and
persona of Diana Fox. This persona appears to be fully devoted to Albion
and his goals. However, this bothers her teammate Wisdom as he fears she
might fail the mission similar to her time with the Hellfire Club.
Her Diana Fox persona climbs up the rank of Albion's Shadow Captains as
BRITANNIA and develops a rivalry with Lionheart. Like the rest of
Albion's army, Sage is given a suit that emphasizes loyalty to him, as
well as equips her with flight and superhuman physical strength.
Although she has the opportunity to kill Albion, one purpose of her
infiltration, she is struck by an errant pulse from an ancient item used
by Albion to extinguish power in England. Though Lionheart suspects her
betrayal, Albion believes she was only trying to protect him.

Wisdom's fears are realized after this when the Diana Fox persona takes
complete control and Sage becomes fully committed to Albion's side.
During this time, she slays two of New Excalibur's erstwhile allies in
Shadow-X, Dark Cyclops and Dark Beast. A direct confrontation with her
teammates in New Excalibur helps reassert Sage's original personality.
Together with New Excalibur, Shadow-X, and now Lionheart, Sage defeats
Albion and his Shadow Captains.

X-Men: Die by the Sword and New Exiles

Immediately after the defeat of the Shadow Captains, a party is held in
honor of Excalibur. While the team enjoys the party, Sage feels guilt
for her actions. The party is suddenly crashed by Psylocke and an
alternate universe Thunderbird, members of the Exiles. They are then
attacked by Rouge-Mort and drawn into a battle for the safety of the
Multiverse from a psychotic Merlin and The Fury. They join forces with
the rest of the Exiles, Roma and the Captain Britain Corps. The team
defeats Merlin, but not before he manages to kill Roma. Prior to her
death, Roma manages to transfer all of her knowledge about the
Multiverse into Sage's mind, causing her to become overwhelmed; she
fears for her sanity. Fearful of what would happen if someone on Earth
ever gained the knowledge in her mind, Sage joins the Exiles. She
currently suffers from hallucinations mixing her own memories with the
information passed to her by Roma; furthermore, the Diana Fox persona
has re-emerged and is attempting to take control once again.

While the other Exiles go on missions, Sage largely remains back at
their base of operation, fighting the effects of Roma's memories and
Diana Fox tenaciously every day until she drops from exhaustion. She
refuses to lose possession of her mind, body, and soul. For a while she
manages to calm down the phantoms, however, Diana Fox remains an
aggressive presence in Sage's mind, fighting her for control.

While diverting her focus to analyze Cat's uncontrolled ability to
"cascade" through different alternate versions of herself, and Cat's
empathic connection to the Crystal Palace, the phantoms in Sage's mind
break free from their mental prison. Sage decides to confront them and
Diana once and for all. During her struggle, she bonds with Cat, who had
been trying to find a way to heal the dying Multiverse. Sage tells Cat
that she is probably too close to the situation and that it is time for
a fresh mind and a new perspective. She sends Cat away to join the rest
of the team and prepares to find answers, just as Diana Fox shows up,
wanting to fight.

Sage and Diana fight each other but neither is yielding; they are too
evenly matched and equally stubborn. As long as they fight each other,
they can't defeat the phantoms. The women decide to team up against a
greater threat: the return of Merlin. During battles, Sage and Diana get
a better understanding of each other and their motives.

Merlin almost kills Sage. Knowing that she could never find answers the
way Sage could to the collapsing of the Multiverse, Diana decides to
sacrifice herself to revive Sage for the greater good. Sage reabsorbs
Diana and destroys the evil version of Merlyn. Sage then follows her
instincts and merges with the Crystal Palace, an act which stabilizes
the Multiverse. This fate was intended for Cat, but she was too young
and too scared; she couldn't handle it. From now on when the New Exiles
communicate with the Crystal Palace, they are not addressing a computer,
they're talking to a living being: Sage. Sage was seen once more in
the Crystal Palace. However she seems to have been permanently absorbed
and rendered comatose along with her Exiles team.

Return to X-Treme X-Men

Like Sabretooth, she was apparently rescued, revived, or separated, as
she was later seen helping Dazzler and an alternative reality Wolverine
rescue a kid version of Nightcrawler from the robots of yet another
alternative reality. As of the conclusion of the "X-Termination"
storyline Sage returned to Earth-616.


Powers, abilities, and equipment

Sage is a mutant with incredible advanced intellectual capabilities, her
mind works in the same way as a computer with unlimited storage
capacity, only much faster than it will be possible for generations and
without losing the particular complex processing capabilities of the
human brain. She is able to perform several mental functions at once
without losing focus on any of them. Her mind allows her to instantly
recall specific information with incredible speed and accuracy. She is
able to store everything that she experiences in a photographic memory
and retrieve it immediately without the typical human pause for thought.
The speed of her thoughts augments her analytical ability so that she is
able to make snap decisions about her surroundings and create complex
scenarios at high speed. Sage is able to track the probability of an
event by piecing together stored data and is able to perform multiple
tasks at once by allocating a portion of her brain to each task. Sage
can use her mind to replay a movie she has seen, play a game of internet
chess, and focus on battling an opponent simultaneously without any one
task distracting her from another.

Sage is also able to 'see' a person's genetic code, reading complex DNA
sequences for latent and manifested mutations, thereby allowing her to
sense mutants and, in many cases, understand how their powers work more
thoroughly than they themselves do. And after analyzing the DNA of
another superhuman mutant, Sage is able to selectively evolve their
existing genetic traits as well as catalyze the untapped genetic
potential of latent mutants. Once begun, the procedure is irreversible
and can often result in unpredictable side effects.

Sage possesses a degree of telepathic ability allowing her to
communicate with others over short distances, project psionic energy
blasts, create illusions, and release an astral form within a limited
range. However, she shut down her own telepathy to protect herself from
Elias Bogan. In Exiles, her telepathy appears to resurface.

Sage is skilled in the martial arts, and is formidable hand-to-hand
combatant thanks to her having complete conscious control over her own
body. Her analytical skills and facility with probability also extend to
combat situations, allowing her to predict an opponent's attacks and
initiate the optimal counter-attack. Sage is also self-taught in a wide
range of firearms, which she can use with considerable skill and
accuracy. She is intelligent. Her computer-like mind makes it easy for
her to learn new skills.

Following her merge with the Exiles' home, the ancient Panoptichron
(also known as the "Crystal Palace") Sage has gained access to all of
its functions. She can project her image as a hologram, as well as a
solid body. She possesses awareness to the Palace's environment, and can
teleport objects and living beings from any Earth in the Multiverse.

Equipment

-   Sage uses a pair of cybernetic sunglasses that allow her to access
    and interface with computers and data networks.
-   She frequently carries and uses firearms and edged weapons, and is
    highly skilled in their use. Her firearms are sometimes loaded with
    stun ammunition.


Other versions

Mangaverse

In X-Men Ronin, Tessa is part of the Hellfire Club, the daughter of
Professor X, and Emma Frost's sister.

What If?

In the What If special, "What if.. Magneto and Professor X had formed
the X-Men together?_" an alternate version of Sage was depicted.

In an alternative world where Professor Xavier and Magneto's roads did
not separate, Sage was found by both men and was never sent to spy on
Sebastian Shaw in the Hellfire Club. As a result, Sage never helped that
world's Shaw win his bet with Bogan, and Shaw lost Emma Frost to Bogan.
Since Xavier had Sage around to find other mutants for him, he never
developed his mutant-tracking computer, Cerebro.

When Xavier finally began developing Cerebro, he used Sage to beta test
it, comparing the readings of the device to the readings achieved with
Sage's own mutant power. In this timeline, Sage served as Professor
Xavier's Executive Assistant.

New X-Men

In the second volume of New X-Men, an alternate future is shown where
Prodigy retains the knowledge he telepathically absorbs, Sage is shown
to be Prodigy's secretary. She is responsible for convincing Jeffrey
Garrett to destroy China and the death of Jay Guthrie in this alternate
timeline.

X-Men: The End

In the alternate future presented in the X-Men: The End series of
books. X-23, M, and Iceman are sent to Hong Kong to locate and capture
the renegade X.S.E. member, Sage. However, Sage uses her considerable
espionage skills to ambush X-23, attaching Malice's Malice choker to her
neck that temporarily overwhelms X-23. Sage has been using the choker to
gather as much information from as many people as she can in hopes that
she will eventually have access to all of the knowledge/information in
the world. Sage removes the choker and attempts to flee just as Iceman
arrives and freezes her in ice, allowing the group to safely take her
into custody.


In other media

Novel

In the novelization for the film X-Men: The Last Stand, Sage is a new
student at the mansion being trained by Wolverine, along with
Cannonball, Danielle Moonstar, and Gambit.

