SASQUATCH (WALTER LANGKOWSKI) is a fictional character appearing in
American comic books published by .


Publication history

Sasquatch first appeared in Uncanny X-Men #120 and was created by John
Byrne.


Fictional character biography

DR. WALTER LANGKOWSKI is a member of Alpha Flight, a native of
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada of Polish Jewish origin and a
renowned physicist, and a professor of both physics and biophysics at
McGill University. He is also a former football player for the Green
Bay Packers.

He possesses the ability to transform into a super-strong, orange-haired
beast resembling the legendary Sasquatch. This transformation is
triggered by willpower. In his transformed state, Langkowski has
increased strength, stamina, and resistance to injury. He also has sharp
claws and is able to leap incredible distances.

These powers were a result of Langkowski's self-experimentation with
gamma radiation. In an attempt to become like the Hulk, Langkowski
bombarded himself with a gamma ray projector at his laboratory near the
Arctic Circle. As a proposed explanation for why he transformed into an
orange instead of green behemoth (as gamma-irradiated persons are
usually affected), Langkowski assumed it had something to do with the
Aurora Borealis.

However, unknown to Langkowski, it was not the gamma rays that turned
him into Sasquatch, but the fact that his lab equipment opened a doorway
between our world and the "Realm of Great Beasts." When this portal was
opened, a mystical beast called Tanaraq invaded Langkowski's body and
granted him his powers. Langkowski had to learn to maintain his own
personality and intelligence when in the form of Sasquatch, and was very
successful for a time.

Alpha Flight

As a member of the Canadian superhero team Alpha Flight, Sasquatch
battled the X-Men in an attempt to capture Wolverine. He later
battled the Hulk, and then, alongside the Hulk, battled the
Wendigo. Alongside Alpha Flight again, he battled the Great Beast
Tundra. With Alpha Flight, Namor, and the Invisible Woman, he first
encountered the Master of the World. He then battled the
Super-Skrull. With Alpha Flight, he battled Omega Flight.
Alongside Rom and Alpha Flight, he battled the Dire Wraiths. With
Alpha Flight, he went on a mission with the X-Men and clashed with
Loki. His Sasquatch form was eventually revealed as an incarnation
of Tanaraq, who took control of Sasquatch, forcing Snowbird to slay
Langkowski.

A new body and a new identity

After his death, Langkowski's teammates traveled to the realm of the
Great Beasts to recover his soul, that is being preserved in what is
called a "Phistash-Hasrak", but a preservation spell cast by Alpha
Flight's resident sorcerer Shaman failed to prevent Langkowski's body
from crumbling to dust. Once there, they were attacked by the Great
Beast Somon, who summoned the Great Beasts Tundra, Kariooq, and Tolomaq
against them. Snowbird battled Somon, eventually forcing him to
relinquish control of the other Great Beasts and causing them to battle
one another. Forcing the now-weakened Somon to reveal to them the
location of Walter Langkowski's spirit, Alpha Flight ventured to the Pit
of Ultimate Sadness, located beneath the Great Glow-Globe of
Phistash-Hasrak, where Somon explained that the souls of those who once
inhabited the realm laid in torture. Within the Pit, Somon explained to
Alpha Flight that, in order to enter the Pit's Well of Sorrows, they
must sacrifice love, hate and power. Sending Aurora (representing love),
Northstar (representing hate) and Talisman (representing power) into the
Well, Alpha Flight soon realized the Well was a trap set by Somon.
Snowbird quickly killed Somon and three trapped Alphans were reunited
with the rest of the team. Shaman soon deduced from Somon's trap that no
actual souls still remained within the Well of Sorrows but rather, the
only wandering soul (Walter's) resided above the Well, within the
Glow-Globe of Phistash-Hasrak. Containing Walter's soul within a globe
of its own from his pouch, Shaman then transported Alpha Flight back to
Earth, where they met with Heather Hudson and Box, In desperation,
Shaman projected the soul into the robot exoskeleton of Box, who had
arrived just as the Alphans returned to Earth. After some searching
for an alternate form, Langkowski and Box's creator, Roger Bochs,
eventually scanned a humanoid, nearly mindless body trapped in another
dimension. However, when the pair projected Langkowski's soul towards
this body across an interdimensional "fishing line", it turned out to be
the Hulk, and Langkowski, unwilling to displace his colleague and friend
Bruce Banner (despite Banner's pleas to the contrary), let his soul
dissipate into the interdimensional void.

Sasquatch was subsequently brought back to life first by temporarily
inhabiting the miniaturized body of Smart Alec, then by inhabiting the
body of the then-deceased Snowbird. At first limited to transforming
between Snowbird's (female) human form and a white-furred version of his
Sasquatch form, he called himself "Wanda Langkowski" and fought to be
recognized as legally alive. This body was later mystically altered to
be identical to his original body by Snowbird's spirit. After this,
his Sasquatch form returned to its original orange hue. With Alpha
Flight, he first battled Llan the Sorcerer. With Alpha Flight,
alongside the Avengers, and the People's Protectorate, he battled the
Atlantean army, the Peace Corpse, and the Combine. Alongside Alpha
Flight, he defended Her against the Consortium.

In 2005, Sasquatch assembled another incarnation of Alpha Flight in
order to rescue the original team from an alien race known as the
Plodex. Sales were poor, and the series was canceled with issue #12.

Surviving his team

Along with Major Mapleleaf, Puck (both Eugene Judd and Zuzha Yu),
Vindicator, Shaman, and Guardian, Sasquatch fights The Collective.
He is later revealed to be the only member of Alpha Flight to survive
the attack. Following the events of 's Civil War, Langkowski is
recruited by the Canadian government to form a new team called Omega
Flight. He goes out of control possessed by the Great Beast, Tanaraq,
but manages to recover. He also forgives Michael Pointer for the
indirect role he played in the destruction of Alpha Flight and
apologized for forcing him into the role of Guardian. Sasquatch has gone
to Wakanda, along with Wolfsbane, Thornn, and Feral. The group offers
their assistance to Wolverine against Sabretooth. Feral is killed by
Sabretooth and in the meantime, the villain Romulus forms plans of his
own involving the group.

Chaos War

During the Chaos War storyline, Sasquatch makes a deal with the Great
Beasts, bringing them to Earth so they can kill Amatusu-Mikaboshi. He
alongside Snowbird, Northstar, and Aurora are reunited with a
resurrected Guardian, Vindicator, Shaman, and Marrina Smallwood.

Fear Itself

During the Fear Itself storyline, Sasquatch was seen helping Alpha
Flight fight Attuma (in the form of Nerkodd: Breaker of Oceans) while
saving people from the flood caused by Nerkodd. Once Nerkodd is defeated
and repelled, Alpha Flight returns to their headquarters, only to end up
betrayed by Gary Cody and his newly elected Unity Party. When in the
custody of the Unity Party, Sasquatch's gamma energy is drained enough
for him to revert to his human form of Walter Langkowski. At
Parliament Hill, Walter is informed by Agent Jeff Brown that the
concussions he had when he played football will cause him to act less
human when he changes back into Sasquatch. Jeff also tells Walter that
he will soon achieve Unity. Walter is later freed by Shaman who knocks
out Agent Jeff Brown.

Sasquatch was seen with Alpha Flight when they come to the aid of Red
Hulk when the Mayan Gods appear on Earth. Alpha Flight helps Red
Hulk fight them with one of the battles putting Aurora, Sasquatch, and
Snowbird in a coma.

As part of the All-New, All-Different  event, Sasquatch appears
as part of the Alpha Flight space program.


Powers and abilities

In his Sasquatch form, Langkowski possesses superhuman strength and
heightened endurance as well as a high degree of resistance to injury
that enabled him to go toe-to-toe with the Hulk and survive (in an early
appearance, Sasquatch fought the Hulk for "fun" in order to test the
limits of his own strength). Sasquatch has proven sufficiently strong
enough to pull a naval destroyer ashore for repairs, and to hold a
-10 against the thrust of its engines and then hurl the plane over
1,000 feet backwards. He also has a healing factor.

Early in his career, changing from his human form into his Sasquatch
form caused Langkowski extreme physical discomfort.

Langkowski is a professionally trained scientist with a Ph.D. in physics
and an extensive knowledge of physics. He is an expert on the effects of
radiation on human physiology, and has experience dealing with many
forms of experimental radiation and their mutagenic effects on life
forms under controlled settings. As a former professional football
player, Langkowski has highly athletic physical strength and endurance,
though he is no longer in the peak condition of his life. Sasquatch is
an above-average hand-to-hand combatant although he relies more on his
great strength than formal combat skill.


Other versions

Unintelligible monster

An in-universe Sasquatch, this one a barely intelligent monster,
appeared in Alpha Flight volume 2. Although his teammates believed
this Sasquatch to be a highly degenerated Langkowski, it was an actual
Sasquatch that had been captured by Department H. He was kept in control
by the touch of the superpowered Murmur, though this was not always
successful. This Sasquatch died in the final conflict with Department
H's corrupt leadership and the Zodiac. Director X informed Mr. Gentry
that the Sasquatch that was killed was not Walter Langkowski. Langkowski
soon returned to active membership in Alpha Flight.

Exiles

A white-haired entity who seemed to be Walter Langowski joins the
Exiles, an interdimensional team of heroes dedicated to fixing breaks in
the timeline. It is soon revealed that she is a black woman named
Heather Hudson, shocking the team who are familiar with versions of
Walter.

Howling Commandos

In Nick Fury's Howling Commandos, a series published in late 2005 and
early 2006, a new intelligent Sasquatch appeared. What, if any,
connection this character has to Walter Langkowski or the Sasquatch from
Alpha Flight volume 2, was never revealed.

 Zombies

In the  Zombies comics set in the universe of Earth-2149 the
zombified Alpha Flight attack the X-Men and are eventually killed by
Magneto. Sasquatch is seen in a panel of  Zombies Dead Days
attacking the X-Man Wolverine. He is killed alongside the rest of zombie
Alpha Flight by Magneto in the next panel.

Ultimate 

An Ultimate version of Sasquatch was referenced as killed off-panel
during the Ultimate X-Men arc "Shock and Awe." Sasquatch makes an
official appearance in the first part of the Ultimate X-Men's
"Absolute Power" arc, as a member of Alpha Flight. Sasquatch, more
savage than its 616 counterpart, appears to know Rogue and experienced
her powers first hand, though Rogue does not recognize the character.
The character is later revealed to be Rahne Sinclair, under the
influence to the power enhancing drug Banshee, after reverting to her
"powered down" form. Sasquatch is injured by Nightcrawler, who while
trying to teleport her away, accidentally, teleports part of her arm
off.


In other media

Television

-   Sasquatch (along with other members of Alpha Flight) appeared in the
    X-Men episode "Repo Man" voiced by Harvey Atkin.

[Sasquatch and Hulk in The Incredible Hulk.]

-   Sasquatch appeared in The Incredible Hulk episode "Man to Man,
    Beast to Beast" with Walter Langkowski voiced by Peter Strauss and
    Sasquatch voiced by Clancy Brown. In that episode, Bruce Banner
    comes to Canada hoping to find his old friend, Dr. Walter Langkowski
    to get a cure for himself and get rid of Hulk forever, only to find
    that Walter has developed a bestial alter ego while using himself as
    a test subject to make a breakthrough in gamma radiation. After
    battling the Hulk, Walter/Sasquatch exiles himself to the wilderness
    when his actions put Hulk's friend, a small boy named Taylor,
    in danger.

Video games

-   An evil doppelganger of Sasquatch appears in the video game 
    Super Heroes: War of the Gems for the Super Nintendo Entertainment
    System (SNES).

-   Sasquatch appears as a playable character in  Super Hero
    Squad Online.


In popular culture

He was mentioned on the hit Canadian television show, Corner Gas. It
was brought up in a fight between Spider-Man and Sasquatch, and Brent
questioned whether it was a fight between Spider-Man and "any old
Sasquatch, or the Sasquatch from Alpha Flight" citing "two completely
different scenarios".


Notes

-   A doppelganger of SASQUATCH was created by Magus in Infinity War
    #1 and appeared in Infinity War #1, 5, Fantastic Four vol. 1
    #369-370 and Wonder Man vol. 2 #15.
-   SASQUATCH was known as SUSQUATCH in Hulk Comic #12
-   A race of giant, hairy humanoids living in Canada are known as the
    SASQUATCH race and were first seen in Alpha Flight vol. 2 #1, 6
    and Generation X #58.
-   In The Infinity Crusade it is revealed that Sasquatch is Jewish.

