SATANA is a fictional character, a half-demon appearing in American
comic books published by . She is the sister of Daimon
Hellstrom, also known as the Son of Satan.


Publication history

Satana first appeared in Vampire Tales #2 in October, 1973. She was
created by Roy Thomas and John Romita.

She appeared as a regular character in Thunderbolts since issue #155,
and remained with the team when the title transitioned into Dark
Avengers beginning with issue #175.


Fictional character biography

Satana and Daimon were born in the fictional town of Greentown,
Massachusetts. They were the half-human children of Satan (their father
was later retconned into a demon named Marduk Kurios who posed as
Satan). Satana and her brother were groomed by their father to be evil,
but Daimon rejected these teachings, while Satana embraced them.

When Satana was still a child, her mother, Victoria Wingate, discovered
her husband and children's true nature and was driven mad. Daimon was
raised by servants, while Satana was taken to her father's particular
Hell-dimension (of which there are many in the  Universe) and
taught black magic. As a reward for her devotion to him, Satana's father
gave her a familiar named Exiter, with whom she formed a close bond.
Satana began studying magic under her father and the demon Dansker. In
Hell, her soul was bonded with an evil spirit called the BASILISK (not
to be confused with the Basilisk) in order to increase her magical
power.

As an adult, Satana was banished to Earth by the Four as a succubus,
draining the souls of men. When she does this, the victim's soul
transforms into an ethereal butterfly; Satana then consumes its essence
by eating it. She also possesses the ability to gain strength through
the use of weapons that were used to kill a living being. In order to do
this, she merely places a portion of her own blood on the chosen weapon.
She used both her magic and sexual wiles to get the victims she needed.

[Satana from the Witches series, drawn by Mike Deodato.]As a succubus,
she stalked victims in New York, and then in Los Angeles she befriended
a Satanist named Ruth Cummins. When Ruth was killed, Satana avenged
Ruth's death by destroying Darkos Edge and Harry Gotham. She later
battled the Four, a mystic cabal. During Satana's first time in the
mortal dimension, she was attacked by Monsignor Jimmy Cruz and his band
of soldiers. During this battle, Cruz summoned demons called the
N'Garai. Exiter tried to fend them off but was killed trying to protect
his mistress. Though she was too late to save her beloved Exiter, Satana
gained her revenge by killing Cruz and consuming his soul. She
confronted her father, who was disguised as Miles Gorney, and defied him
by saving Michael Heron's soul from him. Some time later, Satana was
seemingly destroyed by her brother Daimon Hellstrom, but she defeated
the demoness Kthara. She was transformed by the Camarilla of the
N'Garai into a human, Judith Camber. She was restored to normal, and
destroyed the Camarilla.

Eventually, however, the demon to which she had been bonded began to
desire its freedom. The Basilisk managed to put a curse on Doctor
Strange, basically turning him into a werewolf. With the help of
Spider-Man, Satana was able to free Strange's soul from the curse, but
the Basilisk was released in the process, and stabbed her in the back
with a mystical blade. Satana died laughing, however, because their
life-forces were still bound together; by killing her, the Basilisk had
sealed its own fate as well. She had thus sacrificed her life to cure
Strange of lycanthropy.

As a supernatural being, however, Satana's death was not permanent. Her
spirit returned to her father's realm of Hell for a time, until she and
a cabal of demons arranged to have her soul (among others) placed into a
soulless body on Earth. There she began to build her powers again,
preparing to return to Hell and conquer her father's realm.

At some point she apparently died again. In the short lived 
series Witches, Satana is resurrected again by Doctor Strange and
teamed with two other magic-wielding females to defeat a powerful mystic
enemy called the Hellphyr, which was a front for her father Marduk
Kurios. According to that series, the three witches formed a coven in
order to protect the Tome of Zhered-na (a powerful Book of Shadows
belonging to the Kale family) from would-be thieves such as Doctor
Strange.

After a brief cameo in Nick Fury's Howling Commandos, Satana has
been shown to have reverted to her former wicked ways; reaping souls in
Manhattan and plotting her father's overthrow from the comfort of a
desecrated church. Despite her fatherly conflict, Satana revealed that
for every mortal victim she takes, she must offer the 10th victim as
supplication to her father. The Hood seeks her out to find out more
information about Dormammu. Some time after the fall of the Hood,
Luke Cage and Doctor Strange attempt to apprehend her for working with
the Hood and to get her to join the Thunderbolts. She is initially
resistant, but happily agrees when she realizes she will get to work
with Man-Thing.

In the course of 's "Deadpool Team-Up" series, Satana loses her
soul to four geeks in a high-stakes poker game, and she subsequently
seeks out Deadpool's help to get it back. Deadpool discovers the
poker-playing geeks are actually demons debating which will marry Satana
to become the heir to hell. Deadpool comes up with a plan to swindle
Satana's soul back from the demons: he marries her, binding their souls
together. Satana strengthens Deadpool's katana swords with his own soul
power to make the inevitable fight with the demon suitor more evenly
matched. When the demon comes to take Satana as his bride Deadpool
produces the marriage certificate, denying the demon his bride. The
demon then points out the loophole—marriage is only valid until death;
therefore, he decides to kill Deadpool. In the ensuing battle,
Deadpool uses his soul-enhanced swords to easily dispatch the demon.
Afterwards, Satana slips off and leaves Deadpool a letter explaining the
inevitable divorce. She indicates she will be keeping half his
soul—her entitlement in the divorce settlement.


Powers and abilities

[Satana from Vampire Tales #3, drawn by Esteban Maroto.]Satana is a
half-demon/half-human hybrid, and a succubus; she has some innate
mystical abilities inherited from her father, as well as some granted
her by him. As a succubus, she is able to extract and feed upon the
psychic energy of human male souls to increase her abilities and magical
power; for a time, Satana had to extract and feed upon the psychic
energy of human souls periodically to survive. She has the ability to
manipulate magical forces for a variety of effects, including
inter-dimensional teleportation, levitation, and the projection of
concussive bolts of eldritch energy in the form of "soulfire" or
hellfire. She also had a limited ability to hypnotize her victims and
control their minds psionically. If she touches an object used to kill
someone (like a knife or sword) she can absorb its "blood energy" to
become stronger in proportion to the souls the weapon has taken. She
also has superhuman strength. For a time, she had the ability to contain
the Basilisk, a powerful demon, within her spirit and to release it to
do her bidding and then return within herself. Satana also trained in
the mystic arts and learned how to cast spells and perform witchcraft.
She was trained by her father "Satan" in the use of her demonic powers.


Other versions

The Supernaturals

In a 4-part alternate reality mini-series, called The Supernaturals,
Satana is Melissa Ramos, a Catholic girl who is possessed by a demon.
She is recruited by a magician named Brother Voodoo, along with
alternate versions of Werewolf by Night, Black Cat, Ghost Rider, and
Gargoyle to fight a mystical threat. This version of Satana has mystical
control over fire, as well as the power to fly. Despite her demonic
possession, she has a very pure soul, and was going to be offered as a
sacrifice by a demon called the Jack 'O' Lantern, until she was saved by
Werewolf by Night.


In other media

Video games

-   Satana appears as one of the patrons at a demonic bar in Morrigan's
    ending for  vs. Capcom 3: Fate of Two Worlds.
-   Satana is featured as both a boss and a playable character in the
    Facebook game : Avengers Alliance.


Notes

-   In Tales to Astonish #3, there is a character called PRINCESS
    SATANA.

