SAVAGE STEEL is an identity used by several fictional characters in the
 Universe, most notably Jimmy Zafar.


Fictional character biography

Disillusioned by the justice system and what they viewed as its lenient
stance on crime, a number of New York City Police Department officers
came together to form an organization that would permanently kill
criminals, rather than simply jailing them. Calling themselves the
"Cabal", the group commissioned Stane International to give them an edge
in their crusade. Stane's company designed and manufactured a suit of
powered armor for them, the "Savage Steel" battlesuit, based on
technology stolen from Stark Enterprises. Different members of the Cabal
all took turns wearing the resulting powered armor, including Paul Trent
and former members Harry Lennox, Johnny Leone, and Jimmy Zafar. Savage
Steel was first seen battling Darkhawk, and killed some drug dealers.
Savage Steel then tried to kill the Punisher, then battled the Punisher,
Darkhawk, and weapons dealers. Savage Steel attacked Phillippe Bazin
during his trial, and was revealed as Harry Lennox. It was revealed
how the Cabal created the Savage Steel identity, and the Cabal was
defeated by Darkhawk and most of its members taken into custody.

The Savage Steel armor was then stolen by police van driver Arthur Vale,
who adopted the Savage Steel identity. Vale attempted to gain new
weaponry, but was defeated by Iron Man, who targeted the Savage Steel
armor in an attempt to regain his stolen technology, and then
deactivated the armor.

Jimmy Zafar rescued the imprisoned Vale and Lennox from the Cabal, and
faked their deaths and his own. With Vale, Lennox, and Leone, Zafar
joined the Witness Relocation Program. Zafar later stole the rebuilt
armor from renegade Stane technicians, and adopted the Savage Steel
identity. With Darkhawk as an ally, the new Savage Steel battled
terrorists. He later attempted to aid Darkhawk against an invasion of
Mahari space pirates led by Overhawk, but was knocked out of the fight.
He met up with Darkhawk and his other allies after the battle.

The Initiative

Jimmy Zafar was considered as a "potential recruit" for the Initiative
program, according to Civil War: Battle Damage Report.

Original Sin

A version of the Savage Steel armor was obtained through unknown means
by a criminal. This man was stopped after a robbery by the Black Knight
who nearly killed him during a bout of instability caused by the Ebony
Blade.


Powers and abilities

The Savage Steel armor, constructed and modified by former Stane
International engineers based on designs stolen from Tony Stark, is an
armored battlesuit which serves as an exoskeleton greatly amplifying the
user's strength. The armor is equipped with hand-blasters firing
multi-directional high-frequency electrical bolts, and also comes with
gas grenades, flares, sonic weaponry, a targeting computer, a
self-contained air supply for one hour, and boot jets which allow
flight.

