The SCARLET WITCH (WANDA MAXIMOFF) is a fictional superhero appearing in
American comic books published by . The character first
appeared in X-Men #4 (March 1964) and was created by Stan Lee and Jack
Kirby. The character has since starred in two self-titled limited series
with husband the Vision and appears as a regular team member in
superhero title the Avengers.

Scarlet Witch is initially depicted as a mutant, born with the ability
to alter reality in unspecific ways. Originally introduced as the
daughter of the Golden Age superhero Whizzer, a retcon later established
she and her twin brother Quicksilver were the children of X-Men villain
Magneto. This parentage was their status quo until 2014, when a further
retcon revealed that she and Quicksilver were in fact non-mutants who
had been kidnapped and experimented on by the High Evolutionary, and
then misled to believe that Magneto was their father.

The character was ranked 97th in Wizard's "200 Greatest Comic Book
Characters of All Time" list, 12th in IGN's list of "The Top 50
Avengers", and 14th in Comics Buyer's Guide's "100 Sexiest Women in
Comics" list. The character has also appeared in other
-endorsed products such as animated films; arcade and video games;
television series and merchandise such as action figures and trading
cards. Elizabeth Olsen portrays the Scarlet Witch in the 
Cinematic Universe; a mid-credits scene in Captain America: The Winter
Soldier, a central role in Avengers: Age of Ultron, and reprises the
role in Captain America: Civil War.


Publication history

[The first appearance of Scarlet Witch (center right), on the cover of
X-Men #4 (March 1964).] The Scarlet Witch debuted, together with her
brother, Quicksilver, as a part of the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants in
X-Men #4 (March 1964). They were depicted as reluctant villains,
uninterested in Magneto's ideologies. The Scarlet Witch is depicted as a
calm and submissive girl, as most female comic book characters of the
time. Her costume was mainly composed by a red bathing suit with
straps, opera gloves, short boots, a leotrad covering her body, a
superhero cape and a wimple; everything colored in shades of red.

After several appearances as a villain in issues #5 (May 1964); #6 (July
1964); #7 (Sept. 1964); and #11 (May 1965), Wanda and her brother were
added to the cast of the superhero team the Avengers in Avengers #16
(May 1965). The Scarlet Witch was a semi-regular member of the team
until issue #49 (Feb. 1968), and then returned in issue #75 (April 1970)
and was a perennial member of both the main team and several affiliated
teams such as the West Coast Avengers and Force Works until Avengers
#503 (Dec. 2004), the final issue of the first volume. Upon her return
to the Avengers she was given a long-running love interest in the form
of fellow Avenger the Vision. Writer Roy Thomas recounted, "I felt that
a romance of some sort would help the character development in The
Avengers, and the Vision was a prime candidate because he appeared only
in that mag... as did Wanda, for that matter. So they became a pair, for
just such practical considerations." The two characters were married
in Giant-Size Avengers #4 (June 1975).

Thomas's successor on The Avengers, Steve Englehart, considerably
expanded the Scarlet Witch's powers, adding genuine sorcery to her
mutant "hex" power. He later explained, "Having decided she would be a
full-fledged player, she then naturally developed a more assertive
personality, and I wanted to know more about her rather vaguely defined
powers since she’d be using them more. I could certainly have pushed her
more toward the mutant end of the spectrum, but the name ‘Witch’ seemed
like it could be more than just a superhero nom de guerre, so I went
that way."

The character made occasional guest-appearances in other  titles
such as  Team-Up #41-44 (Jan.-April 1976), and 
Fanfare #6 (Jan. 1983). The Scarlet Witch starred in two limited
series with husband and fellow Avenger the Vision: Vision and the
Scarlet Witch #1 - 4 (Nov. 1982 - Feb. 1983), by writer Bill Mantlo and
penciller Rick Leonardi, and a second volume of the same title
numbered #1 - 12 (Oct. 1985 - Sept. 1986), written by Englehart and
penciled by Richard Howell. Howell later wrote, penciled, inked,
lettered, and colored a Scarlet Witch solo story which appeared in
 Presents #60-63 (Oct.-Nov. 1990). A solo limited series,
titled Scarlet Witch, ran four issues in 1994. A one-shot titled
Mystic Arcana Scarlet Witch was published in October 2007 and an
Avengers Origins: The Scarlet Witch & Quicksilver one-shot followed in
January 2012.

Artist George Pérez designed a new costume with a strong Roma influence
for the character in 1998. This design has rarely been used by
artists other than Pérez. Alan Davis stated that when he became the
artist on The Avengers, he "asked to change the Scarlet Witch just
because I didn't feel the design George Pérez created worked with my
drawing style. I tend to go for simpler, more open lines and don't do
lots of detail in rendering."

The character played a pivotal role in the Avengers Disassembled
storyline and related limited series House of M, and appeared in the
Young Avengers follow-up series, Avengers: The Children's Crusade.

Don Markstein asserts that the character is unlike any other, stating,
"The Scarlet Witch is unique among superheroes, and not just because
she's the only one who wears a wimple. Her super power is unlike any
other — she can alter probability so as to cause mishaps for her foes.
In other words, she 'hexes' them."

The Scarlet Witch is a regular character in Uncanny Avengers (2012),
beginning with issue #1. The Axis crossover revealed that Magneto was
not her father after all, doing away with a relation that has been canon
for decades. It also revealed that she was not a mutant, but a common
human that received powers with the experiments of the High
Evolutionary. This plot twist was published when  and Fox had a
legal dispute over the film rights to the character, as Fox has a film
licence for the X-Men, mutants and their related characters.

Under the All-New, All-Different  branding, the character received
her own ongoing solo series written by James Robinson in late
2015. Robinson explained that he has been influenced by the work of
Matt Fraction and David Aja on the Hawkeye title stating "How they
[Matt Fraction and David Aja] managed to stay true to the character in
the Avengers while also taking it in a fresh direction, so it wasn't
just that same Avengers character doing solo things, which I don't think
ever really works for any sustained period of time for any of those
second-tier characters."


Fictional character biography

Magda, the wife of Magneto, escapes from him while pregnant and takes
sanctuary at Mount Wundagore in Transia, the home of the High
Evolutionary. She gave birth to twins, Wanda and Pietro. The Elder God
Chthon altered Wanda at birth and gave her the ability to use magic in
addition to her mutant abilities, planning to use her as a vessel when
her powers reached maturity. Fearing that Magnus would discover the
children, Magda leaves the sanctuary and supposedly dies of exposure to
the elements. The twins are attended by Bova. Bova soon assists the
superheroine Miss America through labor, but the birth results in a
stillborn child and Miss America dies in the process. Bova tells the
Whizzer (Robert Frank) that the twins are his children, but he flees
because of shock from the death of his wife. The High Evolutionary
places them instead in the care of the Romani Django and Marya Maximoff,
who raise the twins as their own, naming them Pietro and Wanda. After
Django Maximoff steals some bread from a neighboring town in order to
feed his starving family, the townsfolk set fire to the Roma village,
killing Marya. Pietro carried Wanda to safety and the two wandered
Europe for some time. The events of their childhood were so
traumatic that they did not remember them until well into their adult
lives. After Wanda used her powers to save a child, they were chased by
a mob. They were saved by Magneto, although neither of them are aware of
their connection. He recruits them for the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants,
which fought against the X-Men on several occasions. Magneto is
abducted by the cosmic entity Stranger, the Brotherhood dissolves and
the twins declare that their debt to Magneto has been paid.

The Avengers

[Cover of Avengers #16 (May 1965), featuring the debut of Scarlet
Witch (center left) in The Avengers.] Soon after Magneto's abduction,
Quicksilver and the Scarlet Witch join the Avengers. Along with Captain
America as leader, and former villain Hawkeye, the four become the
second generation of the Avengers and are later dubbed as "Cap's Kooky
Quartet".

Wanda is accidentally shot on a mission against Magneto. Quicksilver
rejoins Magneto and leaves the Avengers with his wounded sister.
After a pair of encounters with the X-Men, the twins left Magneto, but
did not rejoin the Avengers immediately. Wanda and Pietro are then
kidnapped along with several other mutants by the Sentinels, but are
subsequently freed by the X-Men.

Quicksilver later returns to the Avengers and advises them that Wanda
has been kidnapped and taken to another dimension by the warlord
Arkon. After being rescued, both of them rejoin the team. The
Scarlet Witch then falls in love with android teammate the Vision.
Before long, the two develop a romantic relationship. Their
relationship has a tumultuous start as both Quicksilver and Hawkeye
object — Quicksilver cannot accept the idea that his sister loves a
robot while Hawkeye loves Wanda himself. Despite this, the pair
eventually marry with the blessing of the entire team.

The Scarlet Witch begins to be tutored by a true witch, Agatha Harkness,
which allows her even greater control over her hexes. Wanda and
Pietro also meet Robert Frank, who believes them to be his children.
This is later disproved when Wanda and Pietro are abducted by Django
Maximoff and taken to Wundagore. Wanda is temporarily possessed by the
demon Chthon, and after defeating it is advised by Bova that neither
Frank nor Maximoff is their biological father. Soon after, while
trying to track down Magda one last time, Magneto learns that he is the
father of the twins. He immediately informs them of their relationship,
shortly after the birth of Pietro's daughter Luna. The Scarlet Witch
and the Vision take a leave of absence from the Avengers, and she
conceives the twin boys named Thomas and William. As the Vision is an
android, she got pregnant using magic. Wanda gives birth, and,
with the Vision, eventually leaves the East Coast to join the West Coast
Avengers.

Their relationship is almost ended when the Vision is dismantled, and
then recreated as an emotionless android. Wonder Man, who had a crush on
the Scarlet Witch, refuses to allow a new recording of his brain
patterns to restore the Vision's personality. Another personal
setback follows when it is revealed that Wanda's children are in fact
missing shards of the soul of the demon Mephisto. Absorbed back
into Mephisto, Agatha Harkness temporarily erases Wanda's memories of
her children from her mind in order to ensure that she can temporarily
disrupt Mephisto's physical form. It is ultimately revealed that
Immortus masterminded those events, as he sought to tap into the
temporal nexus energy she possessed. The Avengers ultimately rescue
Wanda, who regains her memories of her children in the process.

[Quicksilver and the Scarlet Witch discover their origin in Avengers
#185 (July 1979). Art by George Pérez and Terry Austin.] Immortus's
actions leave Wanda's hex power drained and highly unreliable, which
was fixed by Agatha Harkness and Doctor Strange. Wanda is then
nominated as leader of the Avengers West Coast team. When the team
is dissolved, Wanda leads a new one called Force Works. The
team suffers several setbacks, including the death of Wonder Man on the
first mission. When the team splinters after the last mission
involving Kang the Conqueror, the Scarlet Witch and Hawkeye return
to the main team.

The Vision and Scarlet Witch reconcile shortly before sacrificing
themselves with the other Avengers and the Fantastic Four to stop the
mutant villain Onslaught. Due to the intervention of Franklin
Richards, Scarlet Witch and her teammates exist in a parallel universe
for a year, until being returned to the mainstream universe.

Shortly after the heroes return, the Scarlet Witch is kidnapped by the
sorceress Morgan le Fay, with the intention of using Wanda's powers to
warp reality. Wanda temporarily resurrects Wonder Man, and the
Vision is damaged in the final battle with Le Fay.
Agatha Harkness tells her that she is now able to channel chaos magic,
which made her more powerful. Wanda finally resurrects Wonder Man for
good, and the two become lovers. The Vision is eventually repaired
and once Wonder Man breaks up with Wanda, they resume their
relationship. Her ability to channel chaos magic culminates when the
villain Scorpio splits the cosmic entity the In-Betweener into his
separate order and chaos personas and Wanda has to reassemble the
entity.

Reality warping era

[Variant cover to House of M #1 (June 2005)
Art by Joe Quesada and Danny Miki.|right|thumb] Wanda hears the Wasp
mock her ambitions for motherhood, only to find herself missing her
memories of ever having had children. The Scarlet Witch then
seeks out help from Doctor Doom to see if he can restore her children to
life. To do so, they summon a mysterious cosmic entity which merges with
her. Wanda under the influence of the entity launches a campaign of
terror against the Avengers, blaming them for the death of her children.
The Vision is destroyed, Hawkeye is killed, and Scott Lang is almost
killed, but is saved by Wanda's future self, who teleported him to the
future. Doctor Strange defeats Wanda, and Magneto leaves with her.

Realizing that the Avengers and the X-Men are seriously contemplating
killing his sister, due to her unstable powers, Quicksilver convinces
Scarlet Witch to use her powers to create a world where everyone has
their heart's desire fulfilled. Although the reality warp
succeeds, several heroes (Hawkeye, Wolverine, and Layla Miller) regain
their memories and gather Earth's heroes to stop the "House of M".
When Magneto discovers what Quicksilver did, he murders him. Wanda
resurrects him and, enraged with her father, depowers 90% of the mutant
population, including Magneto and Quicksilver. She retires to
Wundagore, to live a secluded normal life. Both Beast and a
resurrected Hawkeye met her during this time.

Return

The Children's Crusade

Wiccan and Speed from the Young Avengers thought themselves to be
reincarnations of the lost children of the Scarlet Witch, and try to
locate her. Magneto, Quicksilver (whose powers had been restored) and
the Avengers try to locate her as well. They find her in Latveria,
amnesiac and engaged to Doctor Doom. Iron Lad rescues the team and
Wanda, teleporting them into the past, where Wanda regains her memory.
When the group returns to the present, the Scarlet Witch tries to commit
suicide. Wiccan then tells her that her father and brother are
alive, and that he is her reincarnated son. She returns with Dr. Doom,
seeking his help to undo the spell that erased mutant powers, but Doom
manages to steal the reality warping power for himself. He becomes
omnipotent, but Wanda and Wiccan steal his newfound powers. She does
not return to the Avengers, and stays for some time in solitude.

Avengers vs. X-Men

The Scarlet Witch returns to the Avengers during the events of Avengers
vs. X-Men. Ms.  and Spider-Woman offer her a return to the
Avengers. Although she is initially reluctant, she accepts and follows
them to Avengers Mansion. Despite both heroines pleading her case, the
Vision angrily snaps at Wanda, blaming her again for having manipulated
and killed him, and telling her to leave. Ms.  and Iron Man rush
to Wanda's defense, the Avengers defer their decision to the Vision, who
elects to stand by his point, even if obviously pained by the situation.
Ms.  carries away a crying Wanda. When the Avengers go to
extract Hope Summers from Utopia and are nearly defeated by a Phoenix
Force-empowered Cyclops, the Scarlet Witch arrives and saves them. Hope
agrees to go with the Scarlet Witch. Wanda causes physical harm to
Cyclops when he touches her arm when he tries to stop her from taking
Hope.

Though hunted by the Phoenix-powered X-Men, Wanda's return to the team
provides the Avengers a much needed boost as many teammates are captured
by the X-Men. Hawkeye ultimately is severely injured rescuing Wanda from
being teleported away by Magik and White Queen, the former of which sees
Wanda as a monster for depowering mutantkind. Wanda's power provides the
X-Men with a threat that not even the Phoenix can face down as the
Avengers employ magical illusions to trick the X-Men into thinking Wanda
is with the various Avengers groups. Further investigation meanwhile
links Wanda's powers to the Phoenix Force. When Cyclops goes Dark
Phoenix, Wanda and Hope Summers, who is mimicking Wanda's powers, defeat
him and cause the Phoenix Force to leave him. After Hope inherits the
Phoenix Force, she and Wanda combine their powers to apparently destroy
the Phoenix by saying "No more Phoenix". This results in the repowering
of mutants, undoing Wanda's actions on M-Day.

Uncanny Avengers

Following the war, Captain America selects Scarlet Witch to join the
Avengers Unity Squad, a new team of Avengers composed of both classic
Avengers and X-Men. After that, she asked her close friends Janet
Van Dyne and Wonder Man to join and sponsor the new team. In
Uncanny Avengers #14, she meets her apparent death at the hands of her
teammate Rogue, who had absorbed Wolverine's powers. This death is
eventually undone when the surviving Unity Squad are projected back in
time, having learned that Rogue was manipulated by the Apocalypse Twins
into killing Wanda, allowing the Avengers to band together and defeat an
approaching Celestial.

AXIS

When the Red Skull mounts a new attack, Wanda attempts to work with
Doctor Strange to cast a spell of moral inversion to draw out the part
of Xavier in the Red Skull and put him in control of the body, but
this spell backfires when Doctor Doom is forced to take Strange's
place, resulting in the moral inversion of all heroes and villains
in the vicinity. When Quicksilver and Magneto try to talk the
inverted Wanda down, Wanda attacks them with a curse designed to punish
her blood, but when only Quicksilver reacts, Wanda realizes that Magneto
is not their father. Before she can pursue this further, Doom
appears with the resurrected Brother Voodoo and the spirit of his
brother Daniel, Daniel possessing Wanda, so that she and Doom can
undo the spell and restore the heroes' and villains' moralities to
normal.

Identity crisis

Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver later take a trip to Counter-Earth.
After being tracked down and defeated by Luminous (a female who was
created by the genetic material of Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver), Wanda
and Pietro were brought to the High Evolutionary himself. He revealed to
them that Django and Marya Maximoff were their true parents, implying
that the twins are actually the lost Ana and Mateo Maximoff. He also
told them the truth where they were supposedly not mutants, but they had
been experimented on by the High Evolutionary. After escaping from the
High Evolutionary's experimentations, Pietro and Wanda located the
Avengers Unity Division (who had traveled to Counter-Earth looking for
the twins) and helped the inhabitants of Lowtown (a refuge for the High
Evolutionary's rejects) from their creator's assault. After the
High Evolutionary is defeated and he escapes into a portal with
Luminous, Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver return to Earth with the
Avengers Unity Division.


Powers and abilities

Scarlet Witch is able to manipulate probability via her "hexes" (often
manifesting physically as "hex spheres" or "hex bolts"). These hexes are
relatively short range, being limited to her line of sight. Casting a
hex requires a gesture and concentration on her part, though the
gestures are largely a focus for the concentration. Despite this
precision, the hexes are not necessarily guaranteed to work,
particularly if Wanda is tired or using her powers excessively. If
overextended, Wanda's hexes can backfire, causing probability to work
against her wishes or even undo previous hexes. Early in her career,
Wanda's hexes were subconscious on her part, and would be automatically
triggered whenever she made a particular gesture, regardless of her
intent. These hexes would only manifest "bad luck" effects. She later
gained enough control over her powers so they only work when she wants
them to, and they are not limited to negative effects. She can use her
hexes to light flammable objects, contain or remove air from a
particular volume, deflect objects, stop the momentum of projectiles,
open doors, explode objects, create force fields, deflect magical
attacks etc. The effects are varied but almost always detrimental to
opponents, such as causing the artifact the Evil Eye to work against the
inter-dimensional warlord Dormammu, forcing the robot Ultron to
short circuit, or a gas main underneath the Brotherhood of Mutants
to explode. The Scarlet Witch also has the potential to wield magic
and later learned that she was destined to serve the role of Nexus
Being, a living focal point for the Earth dimension's mystical
energy.

Writer Kurt Busiek redefined the Scarlet Witch's powers, and maintained
that it was in fact an ability to manipulate chaos magic, activated due
to the demon Chthon changing her mutation at birth into an ability to
wield and control magical energy. This was offered as an explanation for
her various feats that seemed to go beyond probability alteration, as
well as why her hexes almost always have an effect that is favorable to
her goals. During Busiek's run as well as the subsequent run by
Geoff Johns, she was shown to be capable of large-scale spells given
enough concentration and time to shape the chaos magic to a specific
goal, including the resurrection of Wonder Man.

In House of M, her power was depicted as sufficient to rewrite her
entire universe, and cause multiverse-threatening ripples. In
The Children's Crusade it was revealed that this omnipotence was not
part of her natural power level, but the result of a cosmic magical
source that increased a magic user's powers to god-like levels. By
the end of the event she had returned to her previous power level, able
to alter probability and work magic, but not able to change reality at
will.

She also has a degree of resistance to the Phoenix Force and can also
cause pain to its hosts, such as Cyclops when he tried to stop Hope from
going with her. However, this becomes less effective as the Phoenix
Force portions are divided among those who have not yet been defeated.
A vs X #12 confirmed that her powers involve chaos magic, and stated
that she has "Mutant Magic", and the "primal source of her chaos" magic
is cosmic.

Wanda is also an expert combatant, having been trained by Captain
America, Hawkeye, and Wonder Man, as well as being an adept tactician
due to her years of experience as an Avenger and her involvement in a
variety of combat situations.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

During the Age of Apocalypse storyline, the Scarlet Witch is a member
of Magneto's version of the X-Men, dying to defend the X-Men's base on
Wundagore Mountain and the students within it from an attack by Nemesis
while the rest of the team was busy thwarting Apocalypse's attempts to
take control of a nuclear missile stockpile, her last words being to ask
the newly arrived Rogue to take care of her father. To Magneto's
horror, it was revealed that Wanda was briefly cloned in order to repeat
the "no more mutants" spell and end the war between humans and the
Akkaba forces. But the spell does not go well as it was only successful
within a radius of 12 feet, so Jean Grey and Sabretooth are both left
de-powered while Weapon X and his forces remained powered as all Wanda's
clones died.

Heroes Reborn

The Scarlet Witch is one of the Avengers participating in the defeat of
the entity Onslaught, and is subsequently trapped in the Heroes Reborn
universe. In this artificial reality, with her mutant heritage
non-existent, Wanda was raised by Agatha Harkness, with the Asgardian
sorceress the Enchantress falsely claiming to be her mother.

Exiles

The title Exiles features an alternate version from Earth-8823 with
the call sign "Witch". The character joins the inter-dimensional
superhero team but is killed in action, and is replaced - without
the knowledge of her team mates - by yet another alternate version of
herself.

 1602

In  1602, Sister Wanda and her brother, Petros, are followers of
Enrique, High Inquisitor of the Spanish Catholic Church.

 Noir

In the limited series X-Men Noir, Wanda Magnus is a wealthy socialite
and the daughter of Chief of Detectives Eric Magnus.

 Zombies

In the  Zombies storyline, an alternate universe version of the
Scarlet Witch helps Ash find the Necronomicon Ex-Mortis. Wanda is
eventually attacked, hunted down and infected by the zombified vigilante
the Punisher. She reappears, still "zombified" in the third
installment in the series,  Zombies 3. She works with the
Kingpin, using the Vision - who was still in love with her - to block
any type of enemy radio signals as necessary. She (along with the other
zombies) was later confronted by Machine Man, and Jocasta, who decided
to save the Vision and finally kill the zombie Kingpin. At yet one
point, zombie Scarlet Witch is decapatitated by Machine Man's temporary
chainsaw limb and was ripped apart in the zombie pile where Machine Man
and Jocasta are victorious.

MC2

An older version of the Scarlet Witch appears in the MC2 title A-Next.
Having been placed in a coma during the original Avengers final battle
as part of an attempt to save Iron Man, Scarlet Witch was captured,
revived, and brainwashed by Loki as part of his plan to corrupt various
heroes to avenge himself upon the Avengers, but eventually returned to
her normal mindset. She has made sporadic appearances in the MC2
universe since then. [The Ultimate Scarlet Witch on the cover of
Ultimate Power #6 (Sep. 2007). Art by Greg Land.]

Ultimate 

In the Ultimate  imprint title Ultimates, the Scarlet Witch and
her brother Quicksilver defect from Magneto's Brotherhood of Mutant
Supremacy, to the Ultimates in exchange for the release of imprisoned
Brotherhood members. The twin siblings also share an incestuous
relationship.

In the third volume of Ultimates 3, Scarlet Witch is killed by a
lovesick Ultron which is later revealed to have been orchestrated by
Doctor Doom. She is shown to be alive in Wundagore together with
Teddy (Blob's other mutant child), Quicksilver and Mystique.
However she (and her father's reappearance in Egypt) are revealed to be
illusions by Apocalypse.

The Ultimate version's powers differ from the mainstream version's in
that the character has to "do the math" in order to use her powers — she
must calculate the mathematical probability that the effect she intends
to create will actually happen; the more complex the effect, the more
complex the mathematical formula.

What If?

Quicksilver and Scarlet Witch appear in the What If?_ story "What If
the X-Men Died on their First Mission?" as allies of Beast following the
demise of the X-Men and upon the menace by Count Nefaria and his
Ani-Men. Although invited to join the newly formed team upon the success
of their mission, both decline in favor of their current commitments,
although they promise their aid if they are needed.


In other media

Television

-   Scarlet Witch's first animated appearance was in the Captain America
    segment of The  Super Heroes, voiced by Peg Dixon.

-   Scarlet Witch appears in the 1994 animated series Iron Man, voiced
    by Katherine Moffat in season one and by Jennifer Darling in
    season two. Here the character is identified in the closing credits
    as "Wanda Frank" (an alias used by the character in the comics).

-   Scarlet Witch is featured in the 1990s X-Men animated series, voiced
    by Susan Roman. She makes a guest appearance in the episode "Family
    Ties" as well as a cameo alongside her brother in the episode
    "Repo Man".

-   Scarlet Witch appears in The Avengers: United They Stand, voiced
    by Stavroula Logothettis.

-   Scarlet Witch is featured in the animated series X-Men: Evolution,
    voiced by Kelly Sheridan.

-   Scarlet Witch appears in the Wolverine and the X-Men episodes
    "Greetings from Genosha", "Battle Lines", "Hunting Grounds",
    "Backlash", "Aces and Eights", and the three-part finale
    "Foresight", voiced by Kate Higgins. She is Nightcrawler's romantic
    love interest in this version.

-   Scarlet Witch first appears in The Super Hero Squad Show season
    one episode "Hexed, Vexed, and Perplexed" voiced by Tara Strong. She
    joined the Squad in the season 2 premiere after Silver Surfer left.

-   Scarlet Witch from The Super Hero Squad Show cameos as part of an
    alternate reality in the Ultimate Spider-Man episode "Flight of
    the Iron Spider".

Film

[Aaron Taylor-Johnson (left) and Elizabeth Olsen (right) as Quicksilver
and Scarlet Witch in the 2015 film Avengers: Age of Ultron] 
licenced the filming rights of the X-Men and related concepts, such as
mutants, to Fox. Fox created a film series based on the franchise. Years
later,  started their own film franchise, the  Cinematic
Universe, focused in the characters that they had not licenced to other
studios, such as the Avengers. The main core of this franchise were the
Avengers, both in standalone films and the successful The Avengers
film. Quicksilver and the Scarlet Witch were disputed by both studios.
Fox would claim the rights over them because they were both mutants and
children of Magneto, the villain of most of their films; and 
would also claim those rights because the editorial history of the
characters in comic books is more associated with the Avengers rather
than the X-Men. The studios made an agreement, so that both of them
would use the characters. It was made on the condition that the plots do
not make reference to the other studio's properties: the Fox films can
not mention them as members of the Avengers, and the  films can
not mention them as mutants or children of Magneto.

The 2014 film X-Men: Days of Future Past, however, did not feature the
Scarlet Witch, but just Quicksilver. There was a brief image of
Quicksilver with a small girl in the film, and a deleted scene of
Quicksilver complaining about his sister, but the director Bryan Singer
denied it. He said that the girl is not the Scarlet Witch, just
Quicksilver's little sister, and that it was just a nod for comic book
fans.

Elizabeth Olsen plays Wanda Maximoff in the  franchise. The comic
book costume was ignored, in favor of more rooted, everyday clothes. She
first appeared, as well as Quicksilver, in a mid-credits scene of the
2014 film Captain America: The Winter Soldier as a prisoner of Baron
Strucker She became a lead character in the 2015 film Avengers:
Age of Ultron, where the siblings initially conspire with Ultron but
later defect to the Avengers. She will appear again in the
upcoming 2016 film Captain America: Civil War. Both Olsen and
Aaron Taylor-Johnson are signed for a multi-picture deal as their
characters.

Video games

-   Scarlet Witch appears as a frozen statue in Thanos's stage in the
    1995 game  Super Heroes.

-   Scarlet Witch is a playable character in the 2005 game X-Men
    Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse voiced by Jennifer Hale. She and
    Quicksilver appear as members of the Brotherhood of Mutants. When
    the players ask Scarlet Witch about her involvement with the
    Brotherhood of Mutants, Scarlet Witch states that she and
    Quicksilver are there to make sure their father doesn't go too far
    into his goals.

-   Scarlet Witch is a playable character in the 2010 game  Super
    Hero Squad: The Infinity Gauntlet, voiced by Tara Strong.

-   Scarlet Witch is a playable character in  Super Hero Squad
    Online.

-   Scarlet Witch is a playable character in the 2011 game  Super
    Hero Squad: Comic Combat, reprised by Tara Strong.

-   Scarlet Witch appears as a cameo appearance alongside Wiccan in
    Doctor Strange's ending in Ultimate  vs. Capcom 3.

-   Scarlet Witch is a playable character in the Facebook game :
    Avengers Alliance.

-   Scarlet Witch is a playable character in the 2012 fighting game
     Avengers: Battle for Earth.

-   Scarlet Witch is a playable character in the MMORPG  Heroes,
    reprised by Kate Higgins.

-   Scarlet Witch is a playable character in  Avengers Alliance
    Tactics.

-   Scarlet Witch is a playable character in : Contest of
    Champions.

-   Scarlet Witch will appear as a playable character in Lego 's
    Avengers, voiced by Elizabeth Olsen.

Other

-   The Scarlet Witch was among the Avengers in the Got Milk? TV spot in
    1999.

