SCORPIO is the name of several fictional characters in .
Most of the men to use the Scorpio identity have been supervillains who
have been affiliated with the Zodiac criminal cartel, and in this
context were enemies of the Avengers and other superheroes.


Publication history

Jake Fury first appeared in Strange Tales #159 (August, 1967), and was
created by Jim Steranko. He also appeared in Sgt. Fury and his Howling
Commandos #68-69 (July–August 1969).

The character subsequently appeared as SCORPIO in Nick Fury, Agent of
S.H.I.E.L.D._ #1 (June 1968), #5 (October 1968), The Avengers #72
(January 1970), Defenders #46 (April 1977), #48-49 (June–July 1977),
#50 (August 1977), West Coast Avengers Annual #1 (1986), West Coast
Avengers #26-28 (November 1987-January 1988), Wolverine/Nick Fury: The
Scorpio Connection (1989), Fury #1 (May 1994), and Fury of
S.H.I.E.L.D._ #4 (July 1995).

Jacob Fury received an entry in the Official Handbook of the 
Universe Deluxe Edition #17.


Fictional character biography

Scorpio (Jake Fury)

JACOB "JAKE" FURY was born in New York City. As a young man, he came to
resent his brother Nick Fury. As the original Scorpio, he operated as
a spy, terrorist, and criminal. Using his secret identity as Scorpio, he
first battled Nick at a Las Vegas S.H.I.E.L.D. base. He again battled
his brother in Manhattan, then disguised himself as Nick Fury to
infiltrate the New York SHIELD base, although his real identity was then
discovered by his brother. Nick Fury later went undercover as
Scorpio, and took his brother's place in the Zodiac, who battled the
Avengers. Disguised as Jacque LaPoint, he played a minor role in the
Zodiac's attempt to kill all Manhattan residents born under the sign of
Gemini (save for Zodiac's Gemini). He attempted to kidnap Kyle
Richmond, and battled the Defenders. Scorpio constructed a set of
android Zodiac members to serve him, in his base at Belleville, New
Jersey. However, his plan was thwarted by the Defenders, and he
committed suicide through self-inflicted gunshot wound in despair.

In the final arc of the Secret Warriors series, it was revealed that
Jake's death and much of his villainy was all part of a long-game plan
of Nick Fury's. In 1961, Jake Fury was duplicated by ancient technology
(which would later be developed and modernized as S.H.I.E.L.D.'s LMD
program); the evil Jake would go on to be the agent known as Scorpio.
The real Jake, however, was in deep cover within HYDRA, co-opting the
identity of the high-ranking agent known as Kraken and infiltrating the
highest rungs of the organization and helping his brother bring about
its destruction.

LMD and Jacques LaPoint

Scorpio was later revived in an android body by the intelligent,
extra-dimensional Zodiac Key from which he drew his power. The real
Jacques LaPoint became the second Scorpio and led the Zodiac until Jake
(in his second android body) killed him. Impersonating LaPoint, Fury led
eleven other Zodiac-themed androids to kill and replace the rest of the
human Zodiac members, and took over the organization's criminal
operations. Scorpio and the other androids were deactivated when they
were transported to the Zodiac Key's dimension of origin during a battle
with the West Coast Avengers, and abandoned there.

Ecliptic Scorpio

Another Scorpio was the leader of Ecliptic's Zodiac team who fought
Alpha Flight and was later massacred by Malcolm Colcord's Weapon X
team.

Scorpio (Mikel Fury)

MIKEL FURY, Nick Fury's illegitimate son, has also used the Scorpio
identity. Mikel originally believed himself to be Jake Fury's son, and
used a duplicate of the Zodiac Key to battle his father and Wolverine.
When he learned that his mother had lied about his parentage, Mikel
switched sides and became affiliated with S.H.I.E.L.D. for several
months, following intensive therapy. When he was led to believe that
the Punisher had killed Nick, he pursued the vigilante until persuaded
to back down by fellow S.H.I.E.L.D. operatives and ousted from the
agency. He makes a brief appearance in Secret Warriors, issue 11 as
the leader from one of Nick's secret independent teams and is later
killed in a mission.

Thanos' Zodiac

The sixth Scorpio is an unnamed man with a half-burned face who Thanos
recruited to join his incarnation of the Zodiac. He and the other
Zodiac members perish when Thanos abandons them on the self-destructing
Helicarrier where Cancer was the only survivor.


Powers and abilities

Jake Fury possessed a genius intellect, as well as basic army training,
with an above average knowledge of hand-to-hand combat and
streetfighting techniques. As Scorpio, Jake used the Zodiac Key to
increase his physical abilities, and gain superhuman powers such as the
ability to transform his body into sentient water for brief periods of
time. Scorpio is totally dependent upon the Zodiac Key in order to
maintain his superhuman powers. He did not have to be in physical
contact with it to wield it. The Zodiac Key is a power object of
extradimensional origin that taps an unidentified extradimensional
energy for a variety of effects, including concussive force,
electricity, magnetism, teleportation, physical transformation, etc. The
Zodiac Key possesses sentience of a sort. After Jake Fury's death, the
Zodiac Key employed his Theater of Genetics laboratory to create an
android of Jake Fury.

Ecliptic's Zodiac had a barbed tail which was never used in combat. He
also wielded a weapon similar to the Zodiac Key which displayed the
ability to fire energy blasts and has a Zodiac teleportation device.


Other versions

Ultimate 

The Ultimate  version of Scorpio is an alias used by NICK FURY
during the period when he went undercover to infiltrate HYDRA. In the
story, it is mentioned that the real Scorpio had been killed by Fury and
Hawkeye years earlier during a conflict in the Middle East.


In other media

Television

-   Scorpio appears in The Avengers: United They Stand, voiced by
    Wayne Best. He appears as a member of the Zodiac and Taurus's right
    hand man. He is depicted as an alien with scorpion mandibles on his
    jaw, a scorpion claw for a right hand, and a scorpion tail on the
    back of his head. He can take human form and has used the Jake
    Fury identity.
-   Scorpio appears in The Super Hero Squad Show episode "From the
    Atom...It Rises", voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson. Nick Fury
    posed as Scorpio to find out what Doctor Doom is planning until
    Abomination and MODOK discovered that it was Fury posing as Scorpio
    all along.
-   Scorpio appears in  Anime: Iron Man, voiced by Kyle Hebert
    in the English dub. This version is depicted as a
    scorpion-like robot. In the episode "Japan: Enter Iron Man", he
    takes on Iron Man in the first episode and is destroyed after making
    Zodiac known to him. In the episode "At the Mercy of My Friends",
    another Scorpio robot appeared being used by Ho Yinsen to attack
    Tony and Dr. Chika Tanaka on an island near Japan that was used for
    landfill and keep them from getting off. The Scorpio robot is
    destroyed by Captain Nagato Sakurai using the Ramon Zero armor.
-   Scorpio will appear in the Ultimate Spider-Man cartoon series,
    voiced by Phil Morris. In the episode "For Your Eye Only",
    Scorpio and his Zodiac soldiers have taken over the S.H.I.E.L.D.
    Helicarrier as the Zodiac capture Spider-Man. Scorpio tells
    Spider-Man that "Nick Fury is dead". Scorpio states that this is the
    beginning of Zodiac's new orders as he tries to convince Spider-Man
    that Nick Fury has lied to him. When Spider-Man made a comment about
    Scorpio's outfit making him look fat, Scorpio orders his soldiers to
    destroy Spider-Man. When Spider-Man falls into the S.H.I.E.L.D.
    Helicarrier, Scorpio orders his soldiers to find Spider-Man and make
    sure he does not get off the S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier. While
    locating for Nick's secrets, Scorpio tells Aries to find the secrets
    and then set the S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier to self-destruct. Upon
    hearing Spider-Man's voice in the air vents, the Zodiac soldiers
    prepare to fire on the vent that Spider-Man is in as Scorpio
    hears him. Scorpio then orders his soldiers not to fire on
    the console. Scorpio then uses the Scorpio Key to attack Spider-Man
    only for him to escape into the air vents. Upon learning that
    Spider-Man is topside, Scorpio sends the Zodiac soldiers topside.
    Nick dives the S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier into the ocean as Nick
    fights Scorpio. Upon Spider-Man confiscating the Scorpio Key, Nick
    defeats Scorpio and discovers that it is his brother MAX FURY.
    Scorpio escapes into the water as Nick deactivates the
    self-destruct sequence. He reappears in the season 2 episode "The
    Parent Trap", in which Spider-Man, Power Man, and S.H.I.E.L.D.
    attempt to retrieve his key weapon, to prevent him from creating an
    army of super soldiers. They find out he has Power Man's parents
    Walter and Amanda Cage working for him. He told them he had their
    son captured and promised his return in exchange for them working
    for him. When Spider-Man revealed that Scorpio was lying, they
    turned on Scorpio. Scorpio is defeated by Spider-Man and Power Man
    and is arrested by S.H.I.E.L.D.

