SEAN AND CHRIS DANIELS are a pair of characters that appear in the
NEW-GEN comic books published by . Created by Chris
Matonti, J.D. Matonti, and Julia Coppola, they first appeared in NEW-GEN
#1 (2010). They are the twin sons of Gabriel and Thea, but were raised
on Earth by foster parents.


Fictional Character Biography

Sent to Earth

Sean and Chris were born on the world of New-Gen, the twin sons of
Gabriel, leading scientist in the field of nanotechnology, and his wife
Thea. They were mere infants when Gabriel's apprentice, Sylvester
Deadalus, betrayed his mentor and released an enormous swarm of nanobots
onto the populace. These nanobots were capable of mutating the bodies of
those they infected, giving them super powers and enhanced abilities.
Gabriel and Deadalus fought brutally, but Gabriel eventually triumphed
and banished Deadalus to the underworld as punishment. As a precaution,
to protect them from Deadalus should he ever resurface, Gabriel sent his
sons to live and be raised in present-day New York City on Earth. Before
he sent them there, Gabriel expressed concern that their bodies had also
been affected by Deadalus' nanobot infestation, although they showed no
outward signs of this being the case.

Growing Up

The twins were raised by adoptive parents, experiencing a fairly normal
childhood in the city. They got themselves into fights on more than one
occasion over the course of their school years, usually instigated by
Sean. They consistently felt out of place in school and had few true,
close friends. Back on New-Gen, Gabriel and Thea observed the twins as
they grew older and matured. The decision to send them to Earth is a
source of constant conflict between the couple, even prompting Thea to
leave Gabriel for a brief time.

Visions of the Battle

As they got older, Sean began having nightmares about a man they didn't
recognize, which Chris dismisses as merely bad dreams. Unbeknownst to
them, the dreams were actually visions and the man was Deadalus as he
transformed into the demonic Sly through the use of the microbots he
found in the underworld. When Sly eventually dug his way out of the
underworld, onto Zadaar III, Sean began having waking visions of the
battle taking place there between Sly and the members of the A.P.N.G.
(Mini, Flyer, Gazelle, Diamond, and Roboduck). As the visions became
more and more fitful, Chris brought Sean home, and their adoptive
parents exchange worried looks, saying that the twins' "time has come."
Gabriel takes this to mean that Deadalus' nanobots have, in fact,
infected his sons and that their powers are beginning to manifest
themselves.


Powers, abilities, and equipment

The twins, having been infants on New-Gen when Deadalus' swarm infected
the population, have latent, dormant powers, the full extent of which
has not yet been revealed. Gabriel acknowledges the likelihood of
them having powers before he even sends them to Earth. Sean's powers
begin to manifest themselves when he begins having dreams and visions
about events at various other points in the time-space continuum.

Sean also seems to be a tenacious brawler, on occasion overpowering a
bully nearly twice his size. Chris, although similarly built, prefers to
solve his problems rationally.

