SERSI is a fictional character, a superheroine appearing in American
comic books published by . The character is depicted as an
Eternal.


Publication history

Sersi was created by Jack Kirby and first appeared in The Eternals #3
(September 1976). Although the comic book was published by 
Comics, the Eternals were not treated as part of the  universe,
but as a stand-alone series. The characters were incorporated in it
later, and Sersi was used in The Avengers comic book for a long time
as a member of the team. Sersi and the Black Knight, as with other
 characters, were incorporated into the short-lived Ultraverse
imprint, when Malibu Comics was bought by .

The character was redesigned by Neil Gaiman during the 2006 relaunch of
the Eternals.


Fictional character biography

Origins and early history

Sersi is a fourth generation member of the Eternals, an evolutionary
offshoot of the human race. Sersi is the daughter of the Eternals Helios
and Perse, and was probably born in Olympia, Greece, some time after the
Great Cataclysm that destroyed the continents of Atlantis and Lemuria,
during an extended ice age known as the Hyborean Age. At a young age,
Sersi differed from her fellow Eternals in her desire to live amongst
humans. It was during her time in ancient Mesopotamia that Sersi first
met Captain America, who had traveled back in time. While Sersi still
had the appearance of a child at this time, she was already thousands of
years old.

A few thousand years later, Sersi was based in ancient Greece, where she
met the poet, Homer. Homer would later write one of the earliest works
in Western literature, The Odyssey. The character Circe, who lived on an
island in the Aegean called Aeaea, and turned the hero Odysseus' men
into pigs, was based on Sersi.

It was Sersi, under the name of Circe, who imprisoned the imps in
Pandora's Box in ancient times. Unlike the majority of her fellow
Eternals, who stay in their hidden cities, Sersi revels in her humanity,
and has lived amongst humans more than any other Eternal, save the
Forgotten One. Thus, it is no surprise to find that Sersi has lived in
various places of historical importance, from Nero's Rome, to Camelot,
the Court of the legendary King Arthur, where she helped Merlin the
magician to defeat an impostor who had usurped his position. Sersi
fought alongside Thor in the Viking Siege of Paris, although he was not
aware of this. She has been a dancer, actress, stage magician,
hedonist, and adventurer.

Enter The  Age

In more recent times, Sersi battled Deviants in New York City. Sersi
was one of the Eternals anthropologist Dr. Samuel Holden introduced to
the world at large at New York's City College. Sersi became
fascinated with the soft-spoken Doctor, and began a relationship with
him. Although she gives the impression that she would rather be at a
party, Sersi has proven to be a staunch ally to the Eternals in their
struggles with the Deviants.

She met and became an ally of Thor. Sersi then participated in a
battle between the Olympian gods and Eternals. Despite her loyalty to
the Eternals, Sersi does value her independence, and often refuses to
come to the Eternals gatherings. It was during an instance such as this
that Domo of the Eternals sent the Delphan Brothers to bring her to
Olympia so that all the Eternals could form the Uni-Mind in order to
debate their future. Sersi had decided not to attend as she would
continue doing what she wanted regardless of the outcome anyway.
Unbeknownst to the Delphan Brothers, two of Sersi's party guests were
actually members of the Avengers known as the Wasp and Starfox (they had
actually crashed the party, much to Sersi's delight). They came to
Olympia as well, where it was revealed that Starfox was actually the son
of A'lars, better known as Mentor of Titan, brother to Zuras. While the
majority of Eternals decided to leave Earth for space, Sersi was one who
chose to remain.

Some time later, the Avenger Captain America had need of someone with
illusion casting or shape changing abilities regarding a case he was
working on. He found Sersi's address on the Avengers database, and
considered it worthwhile asking her for help. Sersi was more than happy
to aid Cap (she quite fancied him, and was constantly flirting with him,
much to his embarrassment), although she told him it would require a
favor from him in return, (an invitation to dinner as it turned out).

Sersi battled Ghaur alongside the Eternals, Thor, and the West Coast
Avengers. Sersi also aided the Avengers in their struggle against the
Deviants and the Elder God Set. When her fellow Eternal, the Forgotten
One, was injured while serving as an Avenger, the Avengers came to Sersi
for help. She traveled into the Negative Zone with the Avengers to find
the Eternals, and was seemingly killed by Blastaar, but returned to
life.

Earth's Mightiest

Due to her previous assistance, Avengers Chairman Captain America
decided to ask Sersi to join the Avengers. Perhaps based on her
attraction to Cap, or because she discovered that she enjoyed heroics
more than she let on, Sersi accepted Cap's proposal, and became one of
Earth's mightiest. In her first mission with the team, she helped them
defeat Nebula.

Sersi proved to be a powerful addition to the Avengers roster, although
her harmless flirtation still managed to embarrass Captain America.
Sersi served with the team for quite a long time. Then, during an attack
on the Earth by the Brethren, Sersi was captured and formed a Uni-Mind
with the Brethren leader, Thane Ector. Such a union, between two
different species, is forbidden by the Eternals, as it may lead to the
breakdown of the Eternals mental disciplines. Sersi fought Sybil Dorn,
and became an ally to Thane Ector.

Some months after this, Sersi became more aggressive, and was one of the
Avengers involved in the attempted murder of the Kree Leader, the
Supreme Intelligence, during the Avengers involvement in the Kree-Shi'ar
War.

Black Knight's Love and Proctor's Evil

This aggressiveness may have been due to the Uni-Mind Sersi shared with
the Brethren, or, it may also have been due to the machinations of
Proctor, a man from an alternate reality who had been spurned by the
Sersi from his world, and had created the Gatherers, and was planning to
kill all the Sersies across the multiverse.

During this time, Sersi began a relationship with fellow Avenger Dane
Whitman, the Black Knight. Unbeknownst to both of them, however, was the
fact that Proctor was actually an alternate reality version of the Black
Knight himself.

Sersi's now aggressive nature caused tensions between herself and her
teammates. These tensions weren't helped by the fact that the newest
Avenger, Crystal, had come between Sersi and the Black Knight. These
tensions came to a tumultuous climax when the Avengers traveled to the
planet Polemachus, at the behest of its leaders Arkon and Thundra. When
the priest Anskar cowardly murdered the young Polemachan girl, Astra,
Sersi slew him in fiery retribution.

Returning to Earth, Sersi fled to Warrior Falls, Wakanda, in a futile
attempt to escape the guilt she felt at her responsibility for Anskar's
death, and the fear she felt due to her rash actions. The Black Knight
found her, however, and convinced her to return to Avengers
Headquarters. Sersi confessed to the Black Knight that she feared she
was going insane. Little did either of them realize that Sersi's
apparent instability was due to the subtle manipulations of Proctor.

Upon her return to Avengers Headquarters, Proctor used his powers to
cause her to attack her fellow Avengers. She was stopped only by the
intervention of the Vision, who was secretly the Anti-Vision, a member
of Proctor's own team of Gatherers who had infiltrated the Avengers in
the guise of their teammate. The real Vision was being held prisoner in
Proctor's Andean mountain base.

By this time, Sersi's fellow Eternals had become aware of her unstable
nature, and had sent three of their kind, Ikaris, Arex, and Sprite, to
New York in order to return her to Olympia. The Eternals feared Sersi
was suffering from what they call the Mahd W'yry, a breakdown of the
mind due to the Eternals extended lives. Sersi rejected their fears as
archaic, and refused to accompany them back to her homeland. The
Avengers also didn't want to let them take one of their members against
her will, especially when they learned that if she was found to be
suffering from the Mahd W'yry, the Eternals planned to 'cleanse' her of
it by molecular discorporation which would cause death. The ensuing
battle between the Avengers and the Eternals was contained only when
Sprite, who had learned of Sersi's feelings for the Black Knight,
insisted that the Knight be made her "Gann Josin". This is a concept the
Eternals use to describe an intimate joining of two minds as soulmates
in their own personal Uni-Mind. Before this could be further discussed,
however, Ikaris used his powers to cause it to happen. The Eternals
departed, leaving Sersi behind. The Black Knight was less than
enthusiastic at being used in this manner, for he had come to the
conclusion that it was Crystal he loved, not Sersi. 

The Avengers, by their very nature, had little time to reflect on these
matters before they were once again involved in other affairs, first
with the assault on Proctor's Andean citadel, then against the Kree
suicide squad, then in the Genoshan conflict, where Sersi fought
Exodus, and even venturing to Deviant Lemuria, in a battle against
Ghaur. 

Unfortunately relations between the teammates continued to deteriorate,
and Sersi remained in an unstable state. The Avengers called on former
member Hank Pym to discover the cause of her problems. At one point,
Sersi confided in the Avengers' butler Jarvis that she had been having
dreams of a sort about a strange man dressed in black who was assaulting
young men she had befriended. Jarvis probed her further, in an effort to
have her talk about her fears, and she used her powers to pull the image
of Proctor from her mind. Neither Jarvis nor Sersi had ever seen Proctor
however, and both failed to recognize him.

Around this time, two police officers question Sersi personally. They
are found, later, dredged from a river, having been turned into stone.
Proctor was in fact causing Sersi to befriend young men who he would
then murder. He then contacted the NYPD and, on the pretense of being a
concerned citizen, aided them in framing Sersi for the murders. 

Sersi was astounded at this new calamity in her life, and was astonished
to find that members of the Avengers, her supposed friends, actually
believed her capable of the crimes. This was all part of Proctor's plan
however, and he intended to have Sersi destroy the Avengers, her only
real hope of salvation. When the police attempted to arrest her, Sersi
destroyed Avengers Mansion, and fled to the Brooklyn Bridge. In her
maddened state, she used the Gann Josin mind meld to call the Black
Knight to her side and the two of them prepared to fight their fellow
Avengers with all their power. When Sersi threatened Crystal however,
the Black Knight faltered, and broke the Gann Josin bond, freeing
himself from Sersi's control. Shocked by his betrayal, Sersi destroyed
the Brooklyn Bridge, and seemingly the Avengers with it. 

Confused, bewildered, and shocked at the person she had become, she was
finally approached by Proctor, who revealed to her at last the full
extent of his mad plan. Capturing her, Proctor returned to his New York
base of operations, and revealed that it was he who was behind her
madness and seizures, and it was he who was responsible for the murders
of the young men. With her full memory of events returned to her once
more, Sersi broke free from his control long enough to stumble upon
Proctor's trophy room, where Ute, the defeated Watcher Proctor used to
traverse the multiverse, lay in stasis, as well as the various Sersi's
of other worlds Proctor had already defeated. In her confused state, the
Gatherer Rik was able to contain her once again. The Avengers did not
perish in the destruction of the Brooklyn Bridge, but were rescued by
the Eternals Thena and Sprite. Based on the description Jarvis gave to
them of the man in Sersi's dream, the Avengers had reached the
conclusion that he was responsible for her actions, when they were
approached by the astral form of Ute, who warned them that Proctor must
be defeated, or all that is would cease to be. The Black Knight
meanwhile, had reached the conclusion that he and Proctor were one and
the same, albeit from differing realities. Proctor meanwhile, had begun
his final gambit: using the life energies of Sersi and Ute to collapse
the various realities on one another. 

The Avengers and their allies, Thena and Sprite, rushed to the scene,
only to be confronted by the Gatherers. While his fellow Avengers fought
the various Gatherers, the Black Knight approached Proctor himself, only
to be defeated by the Ebony Blade from Proctor's own world. Sersi and
the Watcher looked on helplessly from the vortex that contained them as
Proctor began to 'gather' the Black Knight's essence into himself.
Proctor would have succeeded in 'gathering' the Black Knight if not for
the timely intervention of Quicksilver, Crystal's estranged husband.
Quicksilver was still suffering from injuries sustained in Genosha
though, and Proctor would have defeated him were it not for the combined
powers of Crystal and Thunderstrike, who caused a terrific bolt of
lightning to strike Proctor. This freed Sersi and the dying Watcher.
Approaching Proctor, Sersi used his own sword to end his madness, once
and for all. With his dying breaths meanwhile, Ute used his powers to
undo the damage that had been done to Avengers Mansion, the Brooklyn
Bridge, and various other locations, as well as opening a dimensional
rift to another reality. Sersi, fearing that the manipulations of
Proctor were irreversible, decided to enter this door between worlds, so
that she may be able to live free of his madness, of his curse. With his
own mind clear for the first time in months, the Black Knight decided to
join Sersi in her exile. He felt in some way responsible for the
suffering Sersi had endured, and he knew that he couldn't remain in the
Avengers if it meant interfering with Quicksilver's attempts to
reconcile with Crystal. 

The two Avengers entered the dimensional rift, never to see their
colleagues again... or so they thought.

Lost in the Ultraverse

The portal opened by Ute brought the duo to the Ultraverse, a world
similar to their own, but also with vast differences. Becoming separated
in the dimensional rift, Sersi ended up in Equatorial Africa, while the
Black Knight found himself in Miami.

If Sersi thought she would be free from disaster in this new world, she
was mistaken. Almost straight away, she was possessed by the spirit of
one of the Infinity Gems, fabled jewels of power that had once been the
embodiment of the being known as Infinity.

The Gem that possessed Sersi had been separated from its fellow Gems for
untold millennia, and now intended to use Sersi to be reunited with them
once more, for the six other Gems had also been transported to the
Ultraverse, along with Loki, the Norse God of lies. Sersi's will proved
too strong for the Gem though, and her bond with the Black Knight caused
her to seek him out. The Gem, realizing that she would fight it, gave
her one-day to make peace with her past.

The Black Knight meanwhile, had taken up with the superteam Ultraforce,
the mightiest heroes of the Ultraverse. Learning of Loki's control of
the Infinity Gems, he attempted to contact the Avengers, but was foiled
when Sersi showed up. The Seventh Gem, realizing that it could use
Ultraforce to reunite with its 'brothers', forced Sersi to send them
after the six other Gems. The Black Knight and Ultraforce failed to
wrest the Gems from Loki's control, however, and with her last act of
free will before the Seventh Gem took control of her completely, Sersi
returned them to their base.

Now totally under the Seventh Gem's control once more, Sersi became
aware of the Grandmaster's presence in the Ultraverse. This Elder of the
Universe had once controlled the Mind Gem, and had journeyed to the
Ultraverse in an attempt to regain it once more. Realizing that it could
use the Grandmaster in order to get close to Loki, and thus the other
six Gems, the Seventh Gem forced the Grandmaster to do its bidding as
well.

The Grandmaster approached Loki, and proposed a game. If he won, the
Grandmaster would be given the Mind Gem. If Loki won, he would be told
the location of the Seventh Gem. At first, Loki tried to gain the
location using the Gems he already possessed. The Grandmaster was immune
to their power though, protected as he was by the Seventh Gem. Thus,
Loki eventually accepted his challenge.

The game was called Worlds and Warriors, a simplified version of an
Earth card game. Instead of cards, however, actual heroes would be used.
The Grandmaster choose the Avengers, while Loki was given Ultraforce.
Due to his membership of both teams, the Black Knight was made the 'wild
card.'

Members of each team were pitted against members of the other. The
Avengers, for their part, were told it was in order to stop Loki, and to
save the Black Knight, while the members of Ultraforce were told that
the Avengers were part of an invading force.

The various battles ended in stalemates however, and Loki, claiming that
he had only played not to lose, claimed victory. The Grandmaster, still
in the thrall of the Seventh Gem, revealed Sersi to Loki. She would
never have been able to get close to him were it not for the diversion.
Launching herself at him, she was able to separate him from the Gems
before he could act. Free at last to reunite with its brothers, the
Seventh Gem released Sersi from its power. Reuniting with the six other
Gems, they were rendered entirely sentient, anthropomorphing into
something calling itself Nemesis.

Nemesis proclaimed a desire to create, and, joining elements from both
the Avengers and Ultaforce's worlds, created an amalgam universe. There
were too many conflicting elements though, and when Topaz of the
Ultraverse made physical contact with Loki, elements from two wildly
different continua, the structure snapped.

In her panic, Nemesis teleported to the Ultra's Earth, and intended to
continue creating there, even if it meant the destruction of the world
that was there already. The six other Gems were resisting her though,
for the being called Nemesis lacked the controlling influence that was
needed to unite them. The Avengers and Ultraforce joined forces to stop
her. Creating a diversion, they attacked her together, allowing the
Black Knight to get close enough to separate the Gems once more.

In the resulting explosion, the Avengers were returned to their Earth,
while Ultraforce, Sersi, and the Black Knight returned to the
Ultraverse.

Ancient Enemies — Modern Rebirth

In time however, the two Avengers found a way to return to their Earth,
but not before traveling back in time to the era of the Crusades, where
they fought the man who would become Exodus.

On their return to their correct timeline, the two were separated once
more. The Black Knight found himself in New York, but finding the
Avengers dead in the wake of Onslaught, he joined the Heroes for Hire
(both fictional group and 1997 limited series title).

Sersi found herself in Lemuria, and learning of yet another plot by
Ghaur, escaped to get aid. Also finding the Avengers dead, she turned to
the Heroes for Hire. Foiling Ghaur's plot, Sersi and the Black Knight
decided that they both needed some time apart after all they had been
through.

Sersi returned to Olympia, and, apart from aiding the Avengers in their
battle against Morgana Le Fey, remained there until recently,  when
she joined the New Breed, a group of Eternals posing as a human super
team, in order to control the Deviants, who have become mindless
monsters.

The Eternals (2006)

Due to Sprite's attempt to become a human, Sersi is currently living in
New York, where she plans parties for a living. She cannot remember her
origin as an Eternal, or her powers. She has been hired by Druig,
currently deputy Prime Minister of Vorozheika, to publicize this small
former Soviet republic by organizing a party at the Vorozheikan embassy.
After the party was saved from a group of gunmen via the efforts of Mark
Curry (who temporarily regained his powers, though means unknown even to
him), and Iron Man, Iron Man questioned Sersi about registering, as she
was a former Avenger. Sersi is shown to be perplexed by what he means,
and Iron Man later is confounded when he finds that there are no longer
any records of Sersi in the Avengers database. She tests her powers out
and accidentally turns a cat into a dragon.

If the Eternal known as Sprite is to be believed, the Eternals' memories
of their history and lives are actually a complex illusion on his part
(a possible retcon of the Eternals' origin brought to the fore in this
new Comic miniseries), and Sersi is actually much closer to half a
million years old rather than "just" at most five thousand years old
(she has had the Eternal Makkari as an on-again, off-again lover for
hundreds of thousands of years now if Sprite's story is true as stated).
By the end of the series, she decides that she wants to resume her
normal life, wishing to be neither an Eternal, nor lead the life as an
Avenger that is offered to her by Tony Stark.

Sersi later appears as the head of a party planning website, now retired
from the world of superheroics. She declines the Wasp's request to
become an Avenger once again, but does use her powers to help the team
track down Yon-Rogg.


Powers and abilities

As a member of the race of superhumans known as the Eternals, Sersi has
the standard abilities of Earth's Eternals, though she has focused the
majority of her power into transmutational abilities and passed it off
as illusion or magic over the centuries. Sersi's psionic ability to
rearrange the molecular structure of objects is far greater than that of
any other Eternal; the limits on Sersi's molecular rearrangement powers
are as yet unrevealed. Sersi is the only living Fifth Level adept at
matter transmutation (on a 1-5 scale). She has the ability to alter
molecular and atomic structures of all matter including living
organisms. However, she has expressed difficulty in rearranging
sub-atomic matter.

Sersi has a gifted intellect, and superhuman strength (which she can
supplement by psionically levitating heavy objects), stamina,
durability, agility, and reflexes. Sersi possesses the ability to
manipulate cosmic energy to augment her life force, granting her virtual
invulnerability and immortality, the ability to project cosmic energy
from her eyes or hands in the form of heat, light, or concussive force,
and possibly other powers. Sersi is resistant against cold, disease,
electricity, energy, heat, radiation, and toxin attacks. She does not
age, and can only be killed if her atoms are scattered. Sersi possesses
total mental control over her physical form, granting her virtual
invulnerability and immortality.

Sersi has the ability to levitate herself and up to seven others, and
thus fly at superhuman speed. She has the ability to cast illusions to
disguise her appearance and that of others from the perceptions of
normal human beings. She has the ability to teleport herself and others
with her; like other Eternals, Sersi finds their method of
self-teleportation unpleasant and uses this power sparingly. Sersi can
communicate telepathically, though she can not mentally read the mind of
any Deviant, and she can control the minds of Eternals, Deviants, and
humans. Sersi can telekinetically manipulate objects and generate a
force field. Sersi, like all Eternals, can join the Uni-Mind.

As a trained dancer who has perfected her art over centuries, aided by
her superhuman physique, Sersi has extraordinary athletic ability. She
has also demonstrated a talent in martial arts, multiple languages,
wrestling, and fashion design.


Other versions

Sersi has many other versions in the multiverse, but many of them were
apparently killed by Proctor himself.

Mutant X

In Mutant X, Sersi, along with many other Eternals and Inhumans confront
the murderous duo of Dracula and the Beyonder in Washington, D.C. They
all perish.


In other media

Video games

-   Sersi appears in  Heroes, voiced by Brett Pels.

