SHAMROCK is a fictional comic book superheroine appearing in American
comic books published by .


Publication history

Shamrock first appeared in  Super-Heroes: Contest of Champions
#1 (June 1982). She also appeared in issues #2-3 of the series
(July–August 1982).

The character subsequently appeared in The Incredible Hulk Vol. 2 #279
(January 1983), Rom #65 (April 1985),  Presents #24
(July 1989), Alpha Flight #108 (May 1992), Guardians of the Galaxy
Annual #3 (1993), Guardians of the Galaxy Annual #4 (1994),
Excalibur #108 (April 1997), and  Monsters: From the Files of
Ulysses Bloodstone and the Monster Hunters (November 2005).

Shamrock received an entry in the original Official Handbook of the
 Universe #9, and in the All-New Official Handbook of the 
Universe A-Z #9 (2006).

Following a thirteen-year absence from comics, Shamrock is slated to
make a return to the  Universe in a short story published in Girl
Comics #2, where she is depicted as having become overweight during her
retirement. The story is written by Kathryn Immonen and illustrated by
Colleen Coover.


Fictional character biography

MOLLY FITZGERALD was born in Dunshaughlin, Ireland, and was the daughter
of a militant member of the IRA. As Shamrock, she serves as a vessel for
displaced poltergeists and souls that have died as innocent victims of
war; these spirits manifest themselves for fractions of seconds to cause
good luck for her and bad luck for those who oppose her.

She was teleported away by the Grandmaster, along with hundreds of other
heroes of Earth, so that the Grandmaster and Death could choose
champions from among them. Shamrock was chosen for Death's team,
fighting alongside fellow heroes Le Peregrine, Iron Man, Vanguard, Iron
Fist, Storm, Arabian Knight, Sabra, Invisible Woman, Angel, Black
Panther, Sunfire, and the Collective Man. When the Grandmaster's team
won the contest, the heroes were returned to Earth.

Later, her father drugged her to allow Arnim Zola to attempt to
duplicate her powers.

She later retired from superhero activity and became a hairdresser.
She eventually moved to New York City, where she opened a bar.


Powers and abilities

Shamrock is possessed by the souls of thousands of victims of wars who
manifest themselves as poltergeists which affect probability within a
20-foot radius of her, altering situations so that she is given an
advantage, in essence having "The Luck of the Irish".


Other versions

In the  Zombies universe, she became infected with the zombie
virus and traveled the world in search of uninfected humans, which had
become all but extinct. She encountered Earth-616 ('s core
universe)'s Deadpool, who was traveling with two A.I.M. scientists and a
zombie-head Deadpool. Tigra assisted Shamrock in trying to eat the
humans but was destroyed by the scientists. Shamrock boasted that her
luck powers would allow her to prevail in a fight against him until
Deadpool began conversing with her about how hard it must be living with
her insatiable hunger, but having nothing to eat. He then pulled her
around to the idea that sometimes death might be preferable to such an
existence to which she agonizingly agreed. In having admitted that, her
own power worked against her, increasing her luck that she could be
killed which Deadpool was happy to help her accomplish, cutting her in
half, lengthwise with a katana.

In an alternate future seen in Guardians of the Galaxy Annual #3 in
1993, Shamrock becomes one of the many powers involved in the
Ireland-based resistance against the invading Martians. She works
closely with Doctor Druid; part of her duties is to guard the Book of
Kells, which had the Martian battle added to it. Her adventures allow
her to live long into what is to her, the future.

