SHANG-CHI () is a fictional character, often called the "Master of Kung
Fu", appearing in American comic books published by . He
was created by writer Steve Englehart and artist Jim Starlin. Shang-Chi
has no special superpowers, but does exhibit extraordinary mastery of
numerous unarmed and weaponry-based wushu-styles, including the gun,
nunchaku and jian.


Publication history

The character was conceived in late 1972.  had wished to acquire
the rights to adapt the Kung Fu television program, but were denied
permission by the show's owner, Time Warner, owner of . 
acquired the comic book rights to Sax Rohmer's pulp villain Dr. Fu
Manchu instead. They developed Shang-Chi, a master of kung fu, who
was introduced as a previously unknown son of Fu Manchu. Though an
original character himself, many of Shang-Chi's supporting characters
(most notably Fu Manchu and Sir Denis Nayland Smith) were Rohmer
creations. No characters from the Kung Fu television series carried
over into the comic series, though the character Lu Sung, in an early
issue, bears a strong resemblance to Kwai Chang Caine with the addition
of a moustache.

Shang-Chi first appeared in Special  Edition #15 (December 1973)
by Steve Englehart and Jim Starlin. Special  Edition #1–14
were reprints of older  superhero stories. Shang-Chi appeared
again in issue #16, and with issue #17 (April 1974) the title was
changed to The Hands of Shang-Chi: Master of Kung Fu. Amidst the
martial arts craze in the United States in the 1970s, the book became
very popular, surviving until issue #125 (June 1983), a run including
four giant-size issues and an annual. He co-starred with Spider-Man in
Giant-Size Spider-Man #2 and  Team-Up #84 and 85. Shang-Chi
teamed up with the Thing in  Two-in-One #29. Special
Collector's Edition #1 (1975) cover titled as "Savage Fists of Kung Fu"
reprinted stories from Deadly Hands of Kung-Fu #1-2; Deadly Hands of
Kung-Fu Special #1; and Special  Edition #15. He did several
crossovers with other  martial artists, including White Tiger,
Iron Fist, and Daughters of the Dragon (Colleen Wing and Misty Knight).
He appeared regularly in Deadly Hands of Kung Fu.

Shang-Chi had two more short series: the Master of Kung Fu: Bleeding
Black one-shot (1990) and the MAX miniseries Master of Kung Fu:
Hellfire Apocalypse (2002) with artist Paul Gulacy on art again. The
character had two stories in the anthology series 
Presents including one by Moench that ran in the series' first eight
issues in 1988, and co-starred in the Moon Knight Special (1992). In
1997 a story arc starring Shang-Chi ran in Journey into Mystery
#514-516, and was intended to lead into a mini-series for the character
in 1998.

Although spun out of licensed properties, Shang-Chi is a -owned
character and has been firmly established as a part of the 
Universe with guest appearances in numerous other titles, such as
 Team-Up,  Knights and X-Men. Most of the original,
licensed, characters in the supporting cast have been phased out in the
more recent series and stories.

In some of his modern appearances, mention is made of his villainous
father either in cryptic terms or using a variety of new names, due to
 no longer having the rights to Fu Manchu. In Secret Avengers
#6-10, writer Ed Brubaker officially sidestepped the entire issue via a
storyline where a rogue group of S.H.I.E.L.D agents resurrect a
zombified version of Fu Manchu only to discover that "Fu Manch" was only
an alias; that Shang-Chi's father was really an ancient Chinese sorcerer
who discovered the secret to immortality.

Shang-Chi returned as a main character in the 2007 Heroes for Hire
comic book, and both he and several characters of his supporting cast
appear in that year's Wisdom miniseries.

Shang-Chi appeared in Wolverine: First Class #9, where Wolverine
approached him for advice in order to defeat his nemesis, Sabretooth.


Fictional character biography

Master of Kung Fu

Shang-Chi was born in the Honan province of the People's Republic of
China, and is the son of Fu Manchu, the Chinese mastermind who has
repeatedly attempted world conquest and had a thirst for blood.
Shang-Chi was raised and trained in the martial arts by his father and
his instructors. He was sent on a mission to murder Dr. Petrie, but he
met Fu Manchu's archenemy, Sir Denis Nayland Smith and learned that Fu
Manchu was evil and rebelled against his father. Shang-Chi battled
Midnight, and then first met his close ally Black Jack Tarr.
Shangi-Chi became an ally of Sir Denis Nayland Smith, and opposed Fu
Manchu, and battled the Si-Fan assassins.

As a secret agent, he encountered the Man-Thing, and first met the
superhero Spider-Man. Shang-Chi then first met his friend Clive
Reston. Shang-Chi battled the Shadow-Stalker and Fu Manchu's Phansigar
followers, and rescued Dr. Petrie from Fu Manchu. He then first
opposed his half-sister, Fah Lo Suee. He opposed Carlton Velcro, and
first battled Razor Fist and Pavane. Shang-Chi then first
met his love Leiko Wu. He opposed Mordillo and Brynocki. He
first encountered the Cat, then first met Iron Fist, and
then first battled Shockwave. Following another battle against
Fu Manchu, Shang-Chi quit MI-6.

As an adventurer, he teamed with Iron Fist, White Tiger, and Jack of
Hearts against the Corporation. He then first met the Thing, and
battled HYDRA. He became involved in a game between Doctor Doom and
the Prime Mover. He first battled Skullcrusher, and then
first battled Zaran. Shang-Chi then teamed with Spider-Man, the
Black Widow, and Nick Fury against Viper, Boomerang, and Silver
Samurai. Shang-Chi opposed Fu Manchu and Fah Lo Suee once
again. With Smith, Tarr, Reston, and Wu, he formed Freelance
Restorations, Ltd, which was based in Stormhaven Castle, Scotland.
Shang-Chi finally witnessed the death of Fu Manchu. He then teamed
with Rom against the Dire Wraiths. Not long after his father's
death, Shang-Chi quit Freelance Restorations, forsook his life as an
adventurer, and retired to remote Yang-Tin, China, to live as a
fisherman.

Return

Some time later, Shang-Chi returned from China, and rejoined Tarr,
Reston, and Wu. They battled Argus' terroristic group, formed to cause
the United States to act more aggressively against all terrorists. In
order to gain information, Argus had Wu tortured, cutting off her left
hand as a message. She was rescued by Shang Chi and the others but not
before he suffered a dose of a slow-acting poison. Before the poison
could kill him, he was cured of the its effects by Fu Manchu's elixir
vitae.

Heroes for Hire

As a member of the restored Heroes for Hire, Shang-Chi had put his
strength of character at the service of their teammates. Humbug, turning
against the heroes, tries to double cross both his friends and the
"Earth Hive" of insects, joining the Hive, and offering Colleen Wing and
Tarantula to a lifetime of tortures. Even so, when a dying Humbug begs
his friend to mercy kill him, Shang Chi refuses, until he finds that
Humbug actually had no qualms to torture Tarantula, if it meant less
suffering for Colleen. Shang-Chi then snaps his neck, and leaves with
the catatonic Tarantula, ashamed of what he believed he had to become, a
soulless murderer.

Still working for MI6, he goes on to collaborate with Pete Wisdom of
MI-13 in facing the Welsh dragon, which had turned amnesiac and become a
human crime lord. Shang-Chi had been told by Wisdom that the dragon
(being inherently noble) would go free once it remembered its true
origins, and was embittered to find this had been a lie. He became
the tutor of a young Earth-616 Killraven.

Heroic Age

In the Shadowland storyline, Shang-Chi is one of the heroes fighting
The Hand ninjas. He later works together with Spider-Man against Mister
Negative, and temporarily takes Mister Negative's powers until Shang is
being brought back to normal by Spider-Man.

In Secret Avengers, Steve Rogers tracks Shang-Chi down to help turn
back the Shadow Council, which has resurrected Shang-Chi's father, Zheng
Zu, and employed the Hai-Dai, a squad of assassins, to hunt Shang-Chi
down.

Per the instructions of the new Madame Web, Shang-Chi has begun training
Spider-Man in kung fu to help him compensate for the recent loss of his
spider-sense.

 NOW!

During the  NOW!_ relaunch, Shang-Chi joins the Avengers after
being recruited by Captain America and Iron Man.


Powers and abilities

Although it has never been determined exactly how extensive Shang-Chi's
fighting skills are, he has beaten numerous superhuman opponents.
Shang-Chi is classed as an athlete but he is one of the best
non-superhumans in martial arts and has dedicated much of his life to
the art, being referred to by some as the greatest empty handed fighter
and practitioner of kung fu alive. Much of his physical abilities seem
to stem from his mastery of chi, which often allows him to surpass
physical limitations of normal athletes. He has also demonstrated the
ability to dodge bullets from machine guns and sniper rifles, and is
able to deflect gunshots with his bracers. Shang-Chi is also highly
trained in the arts of concentration and meditation, and is an expert in
various hand-weapons including swords, staves, kali sticks, nunchaku,
and shuriken.


Other versions

House of M

Shang-Chi never realizes his father's evil doings before his death at
Magneto's hands. This causes him to become consumed with a desire
for vengeance. In this reality, Shang-Chi is the head of the Dragons
criminal organization, alongside Colleen Wing, Swordsman, Mantis, Zaran
and Machete. The Dragons later resolved their rivalry against Luke
Cage's gang, but were eventually captured in a trap created by both
the Kingpin's assassins and Thunderbird's agents. The Dragons and
the Wolfpack were freed by Luke Cage, in which Shang-Chi's gang join the
Avengers in their battle against the Brotherhood.

 Apes

In this simian version of the  Universe, Shang-Chi and his father
work as a subversive organization, trying to get the local sentients to
work in peace and not in animalistic domination. The Avengers
(Ape-vengers) murder him for this 'weak-minded' sentiment.

 Zombies

In the  Zombies continuity, Shang-Chi is turned into a zombie
during a multi-hero effort to rescue surviving civilians. In a
mid-Manhattan battle, detailed in Ultimate Fantastic Four #23, he and
dozens of other zombie-heroes attempt to consume the last batch of
humans. These humans are defended by that universe's Magneto and the
Ultimate Fantastic Four. During a successful rescue attempt, Thing sends
Shang-Chi flying through the air with one punch. Shang-Chi is then seen
attacking Magneto once again, but he is cut in half by the Master of
Magnetism. A different Shang-Chi appears in  Zombies Return
in an alternate universe where he is unaffected by the zombie outbreak.
The zombie Wolverine finds him in an underground fight club, engaging
with other infamous martial artists. The flesh-hungry mutant slashes him
to death.

Ultimate 

In the Ultimate  universe, Shang-Chi first appeared in Ultimate
 Team-Up #15. He is the son of an international crime lord.
Trained from birth to become a living weapon, he became the world's
greatest martial artist. A noble spirit, he eventually came to renounce
his father's empire. Seeking to get away from his father's
reach, he emigrated to New York where he worked as a floor sweeper at
Wu's Fish Market in Chinatown. Feeling that the denizens of New York's
Chinatown needed someone to protect them, he and his friend Danny Rand
were drawn into the gang war between the Kingpin and Hammerhead after
the latter targeted him to win over the Chinatown gangs to his
cause. The conflict climaxed when Shang-Chi, Danny Rand, Spider-Man,
Black Cat, Moon Knight and Elektra ambushed Hammerhead's penthouse,
where a battle royale ensued. It ended with an unconscious Elektra,
Hammerhead and Moon Knight. The gang members were then arrested by the
police.

The martial arts warrior disguised himself as a costumed criminal in
order to take down the Kingpin. The Kingpin discovered his plan and
threatened to kill the hero, but he was rescued by Daredevil,
who then recruited him as a part of his team to take down the
Kingpin. After the Kingpin's identity is leaked to the New York
Police Department, Shang-Chi and the team disbanded and went their
separate ways.

Earth-13584

In A.I.M.'s pocket dimension of Earth-13584, Shang-Chi appears as a
member of Spider-Man's gang.


In other media

Television

Shang-Chi will be making his live action debut in the upcoming Netflix
series Iron Fist.

