SHANNA THE SHE-DEVIL is a jungle adventurer appearing in American comic
books published by . Created by writer Carole Seuling and
penciller George Tuska, she made her first appearance in Shanna the
She-Devil #1 (Dec. 1972) and was ranked 53rd in Comics Buyer's
Guide's "100 Sexiest Women in Comics" list.


Publication history

Shanna the She-Devil was introduced in one of a trio of 
aimed at a female audience, alongside Night Nurse and Claws of the
Cat.  writer-editor Roy Thomas recalled in 2007 that
editor-in-chief Stan Lee

Seuling in 2010 recalled,"My instructions were to make [Shanna] someone
who would fit in with the times and also was prone to a little more
violence than Sheena or the other jungle queens of the past." With
veteran penciler George Tuska, she created the lead character and her
two leopard companions, as well as game warden and potential romantic
interest Patrick McShane, loosely based on after actor Patrick
McGoohan's game-warden character in the film Nor the Moon by Night.

The writer Steve Gerber, in his first assignment for ,
supplied additional dialogue for that first issue, as well as the next.
Seuling explained,

  Steve Gerber did not collaborate with me on the scripts or the origin
  story, but he added some additional dialogue since Stan [Lee] and Roy
  [Thomas] thought the stories were a bit light on the talking.

  However, ... Steve Gerber was not one of the creators. He provided
  additional dialogue for the first two [issues] and then took over when
  I left [after four issues]. ... Gerber himself, before he died a few
  years ago, denied that he had any part in Shanna's origin.

This initial series ran five issues (Dec. 1972 - Aug. 1973), with Jim
Steranko drawing the covers of #1-2, John Buscema and Joe Sinnott of
issue #3, and John Romita Sr. of the final two issues.

The character went on to a series of guest appearances, first in the
jungle lord comic Ka-Zar #1 (Jan. 1974); then in a storyline running
through the superhero comics Daredevil #109-111 (May–July 1974) and
 Two-in-One #3 (May 1974), which supplied additional details
about Shanna's past and family, and notes McShane's murder by the
supervillainess Nekra in the interim; in Daredevil #117 (Jan. 1975);
and in a Ka-Zar story in the black-and-white, mature-audience comics
magazine Savage Tales #8 (Jan. 1975).

Shanna then starred in two solo stories in Savage Tales #9-10 (March &
May 1975) by writer Carla Conway (assisted by then-husband Gerry Conway
on the former), with pencil art by, respectively, Tony DeZuniga and Ross
Andru. In the first of these two stories, Shanna's leopards Ina and
Biri are killed. Gerry Conway recalled in 2010 that this "was part of
the strategy to make her a stronger, fiercer character in the Savage
Tales mode. It also raised the stakes for her personally, and by
eliminating these 'rivals' for her affections opened her up to a
relationship with Ka-Zar", whom she would eventually marry, in
''Ka-Zar the Savage #29 (Dec. 1983).

In the meantime, Shanna starred in a backup story in The Rampaging
Hulk #9 (June 1978), by writer Gerber and artist DeZuniga. She then
starred in several eight-page solo stories in the omnibus title 
Comics Presents, beginning with a tale by writer-artist Bruce Jones in
issue #13 (Late Feb. 1989), followed by the 10-part "The Bush of
Ghosts", by writer Gerard Jones and penciler Paul Gulacy in issues
#68-77 (Jan.-Late May 1991).

Dovetailing with the end of that run came four full-length stories begun
in 1978, completing plot threads from Shanna's solo story in The
Rampaging Hulk #9. Written by Gerber and penciled by Carmine Infantino,
Bret Blevins (two stories, the first credited as "A. Novice") and
DeZuniga, these non-chronological, essentially flashback stories ran in
 Fanfare #56-59 (April-Oct. 1991). The title's editor, Al
Milgrom, unearthed the unpublished stories because

 has also published alternate-universe versions of Shanna,
unrelated except for the name.

Shanna was featured in the  NOW!_ book titled Savage Wolverine.
The new series, written and drawn by Frank Cho, debuted in January 2013.
The title is a team-up story with Shanna and Wolverine as they try to
survive the Savage Land together.


Fictional character biography

[Shanna the She-Devil #2 (Feb. 1973). Cover art by Jim Steranko. ]
SHANNA O'HARA, LADY PLUNDER is the daughter of a diamond miner named
Gerald O'Hara. Born in Africa, she spent the majority of her childhood
growing up in the jungles of Zaire. At the age of six, her father went
to kill a rogue leopard that belonged to her mother, Patricia O'Hara.
While hunting for the leopard, Shanna's father accidentally killed her
mother. This traumatic incident led to Shanna's lifelong crusade against
the use of firearms. After the incident, Shanna moved back to the United
States to live with relatives. Shanna grows up to become an accomplished
Olympic athlete, specializing in competitive swimming and track and
field. She then became a licensed veterinarian.

After completing college, Shanna began to work for the Central Park
Municipal Zoo in New York City as a zoologist. While working at the zoo,
Shanna raised many animals, including a female leopard named Julani.
During this period another shock to her system came when Julani was shot
and killed by a zoo guard. The following day, the zoo director proposes
Shanna take Julani's cubs, INA and BIRI — Yoruba names meaning "bright"
and "black", respectively — to the Dahomey Reserve in Africa.

While in Africa, Shanna becomes more attuned to nature, patrolling the
jungle and living freely in the wild lands. She begins to wear Julani's
fur pelt as a sight-and-sense cue to help with the raising of the cubs.
In the jungle, Shanna becomes more and more at home with herself and her
new native element, all the while protecting the reserve from poachers
as Shanna the She-Devil.

During her stay in Africa, her father is kidnapped by the Mandrill.
Shanna searches for him until the wizard Malgato kidnaps her to the
Savage Land, a prehistoric jungle within Antarctica. She escapes with
the help of Lord Kevin Plunder, a.k.a. the jungle lord Ka-Zar. Shanna
returns to Africa to look for her father, and learns he was killed by
the Mandrill. Seeking revenge, she goes to North America to aid
Daredevil and Black Widow in stopping the Mandrill and Nekra's plan to
overthrow the American government.

After this, Shanna travels between San Francisco and the Savage Land,
finally returning to Africa only to find Ina and Biri have been killed
by a religious cult leader named Raga-Shah. After a short grieving
period in North America, Shanna tracks and kills Raga-Shah by feeding
him to her python Ananta. Around this time, she begins therapy with
psychologist Dr. Dorothy Betz.

Shanna returned to the Savage Land and became Ka-Zar's lover. They
discovered their lost world was only part of a larger realm, Pangea,
filled with wondrous races. The couple's relationship was tempestuous:
Shanna married Mele of the Botor who died in a hunting accident while
with Ka-Zar. Shanna was also targeted by the demonic Belasco (who felt
she resembled his lost love Beatrice). When Ka-Zar was seemingly killed
while they were in New York, a distraught Shanna rampaged, was
institutionalized, and nearly romanced Peter Parker. Shanna was rescued
by a revived Ka-Zar, aided by Spider-Man, and the two returned to
Antarctica, where they were married despite interference from Belasco
and others. They employed the native warrior woman Zhira as nanny and
protector of their son Matthew.

They survived the temporary destruction of the Savage Land by Terminus
and its later re-creation by the High Evolutionary and Garokk.

Shanna briefly attained a mystical bond to the spirit of Africa, foiling
Sir Guy Cross-Wallace who slaughtered and consumed wildlife, seeking the
bond himself to rule the continent. Shanna was also briefly given power
over the natural world by the High Evolutionary. Together, Ka-Zar and
Shanna fight to preserve the Savage Land from external threats and from
pollution by technology.

Shanna and Ka-Zar find Skrulls mining the rare metal vibranium in the
Savage Land. Soon afterward as part of the "Secret Invasion" storyline,
a Skrull ship crashes in the Savage Land releasing earlier versions of
modern superheroes (who claim to be the originals replaced by Skrulls
for some time), and who have escaped. Shanna and Ka-Zar soon learn
however, that these are simply more Skrulls in disguise. Spider-Man soon
encounters Ka-Zar, Shanna, Zabu, and some of the natives accusing them
of being Skrulls. Just then, the Captain America from the ship attacked
thinking the same for Spider-Man. Ka-Zar, Shanna, and Zabu help
Spider-Man fight the Captain America from the ship until it is hit by a
dart that causes it to regress to a Skrull named Pit'o Nilli. Shanna
then kills Pit'o Nilli. Shanna stays behind with Zabu to fight off
anymore Skrulls left in the Savage Land while Ka-Zar heads with the New
Avengers and the Mighty Avengers to New York to fight the Skrulls.

Ka-Zar and Shanna later encounter the return of the Ethereals and end up
fighting them when it comes to the Ethereals wanting the tribes of the
Savage Land to be united with them.

As part of the  NOW!_ event in the pages of Savage Wolverine,
Shanna the She-Devil agreed to be a guide to a group of S.H.I.E.L.D.
agents who were venturing to a mysterious island within the Savage Land.
A damping field was located on the island, causing their transport to
crash land. Stranded on the island, Shanna and the S.H.I.E.L.D. agents
attempts to flee by sea, but were stopped by monsters living the ocean.
They then decided to find and destroy the source of the damping field,
creating a bomb to do so. Unfortunately for Shanna, the Neanderthals on
the island killed all the S.H.I.E.L.D. agents before they could destroy
the machine. At the same time, Wolverine crashed on the island.
Wolverine and Shanna the She-Devil set out to destroy the machine and
encounter heavy Neanderthal resistance. During the fight against the
Neanderthals, Shanna the She-Devil ends up killed by one of the
Neanderthals. Luckily for Wolverine, Amadeus Cho was also on the island
and convinced the Neanderthals that he was their god and to help Shanna
the She-Devil. Using the life blood of a Man-Thing that was native
to the Savage Land, the Neanderthal tribe resurrected Shanna the
She-Devil. This left Shanna the She-Devil connected to the very life
force of the Savage Land, giving her supernatural power. Amadeus Cho
told Shanna the She-Devil what the Neanderthal natives had explained to
him. The machine powering the damping field was also powering a prison,
one holding an ancient hostile alien presence. Realizing that Wolverine
would be releasing this creature, Shanna the She-Devil raced to stop
him. She arrived in time with Amadeus Cho right behind her and was able
to stop Wolverine. Suddenly, Hulk appeared before them.


Powers and abilities

Shanna is gifted with Olympic-class athleticism along with extraordinary
agility. She is a well-trained veterinarian, with the capability of
being close to wild animals. Shanna is adept at hunting and gathering,
healing and tracking. She is an experienced fighter, familiar with
knives, spears, bows and arrows and other primitive forms of weapons.
She has Olympic athlete-level strength: naturally excelling at swimming,
diving, climbing, leaping, and running with great speed and
determination.

After her resurrection, Shanna is tied into the life force of the Savage
Land. She also instinctively knows the languages and history of the
Savage Land and its people. Shanna also now possesses the strength of
ten men. She was able to run 52 miles per hour over uneven terrain.


Other versions

Frank Cho version

A blonde, alternate-universe version of the character starred in the
seven-issue miniseries Shanna, the She-Devil vol. 2 (April-Oct. 2005),
written and drawn by Frank Cho. This Shanna is the result of a genetic
experiment and she also has superhuman strength and agility. One member
of a scientific expedition that encountered her named her Shanna "after
the comicbook character".

The series was originally scheduled for release under 's "mature
readers" MAX imprint, but was reworked, with Cho eliminating the nudity
before publication. It ran with a "PSR+" rating through issue #4, and a
"Parental Advisory" rating afterward.

A four-issue sequel miniseries, Shanna The She-Devil: Survival of the
Fittest (Oct. 2007 - Jan. 2008) by writers Justin Gray and James
Palmiotti and penciller Khari Evans, featured this same alternate
version of Shanna. In Secret Invasion, Earth-616 Shanna was rendered
by Leinil Francis Yu very similar to her  MAX counterpart.

Ultimate 

Shanna and Ka-Zar first appear in the alternate-universe Ultimate 
imprint on the final page of Ultimates 3 #3. Flashbacks reveal that
she, Ka-Zar, and Zabu have been friends since childhood. After the
Ultimatum wave, they join the New Ultimates where they helped to fight
Loki.


In other media

Television

-   Shanna the She-Devil appeared in the Spider-Man and His Amazing
    Friends episode "7 Little Superheroes", voiced by Janet Waldo.
    However, she was referred to as Shanna the Jungle Queen rather than
    the She-Devil. She alongside Spider-Man, Iceman, Firestar, Captain
    America, Namor, and Doctor Strange are invited to Wolf Island where
    Chameleon ends up hunting them.
-   Shanna the She-Devil appears in the X-Men TV series, voiced by
    Megan Smith. She is seen as Ka-Zar's wife and was first seen being
    chased by and later hypnotized by Sauron in Mojovision. She is
    seen later on as one of the prisoners of Mister Sinister. Shanna is
    present as Ka-Zar welcomes Karl Lykos into his tribe following
    Garokk's defeat.

Video games

-   Shanna the She-Devil appeared in X-Men Legends II: Rise of
    Apocalypse voiced by Masasa Moyo. She and Ka-Zar are seen in
    Magneto's base in Avalon during the X-Men and Brotherhood of
    Mutants' mission in the Savage Land.
-   In  vs. Capcom 3: Fate of Two Worlds, Shanna (along with
    Ka-Zar and Zabu), make a cameo in Amaterasu's ending. In it,
    Amaterasu and her Celestial Envoy Issun find themselves in the
    Savage Land, and team up with the trio to fend off a
    wild Tyrannosaurus.
-   Shanna the She-Devil appears in  Heroes voiced by Catherine
    Taber.
-   Shanna will appear as a playable character in : Avengers
    Alliance. She will be purchasable once the player has completed a
    series of side-quests.

