SHARON FRIEDLANDER is a fictional character appearing in American comic
books published by . The character most often appears in
X-Men stories in the  Universe. Sharon first appeared in New
Mutants vol. 1 #19 (1984). She was created by Chris Claremont and Bill
Sienkiewicz. Her last appearance was in Uncanny X-Men #298 (March,
1993).


Fictional character biography

Sharon's first meeting with mutants associated with the X-Men, was when
the New Mutants brought in Dani Moonstar to the Mid-County Medical
Center. Sharon was employed in the emergency room as a nurse. A short
time later, Sharon and police officer Tom Corsi were abducted by a
creature called the Demon Bear, who had mauled Dani Moonstar during a
battle outside the Xavier Institute earlier that night. The Demon Bear
attempted to transform Friedlander and Corsi into his demonic slaves.
After the New Mutants defeated the bear, Tom and Sharon were returned to
their natural human form, with a couple of physical changes: the two of
them acquired features similar to Native Americans (previously they were
both White Americans), along with being enhanced to the level of being
perfect human specimens.

After her initial encounter with the New Mutants, Sharon joined the
staff at Xavier's School for Gifted Youngsters, as a nurse and
confidante. She stayed in the capacity of a nurse for a while. Sharon
and Tom Corsi had a brief romantic interest in each other, which was
later used against them by Empath, one of the Hellions. Empath used his
power over human emotions to make their romantic feelings into obsessive
ones, distracting them while he manipulated Magneto into a deep
depression. At this time, Magneto was assuming duties as headmaster of
Xavier's school and guardianship over the New Mutants. While Magneto was
still vulnerable, Emma Frost transferred the New Mutants to her school.

Sharon stayed on at Xavier's School for some time, until the New Mutants
found themselves in Asgard; Sharon and Tom appeared less frequently in
the X-titles by then. Eventually, Sharon was a resident of Muir Island
with Moira MacTaggert.

In her last appearance, some time later, Sharon made herself a quiet
life. She was at a school for the handicapped, called Our Mother of the
Sacred Heart. The school found itself under attack by a new of group of
Acolytes. She was killed by the Acolyte Joanna Cargill when she was
struck in the jaw thus snapping her neck in the process. Her final act
was to send a mental call for help to Professor X.


Powers and abilities

Sharon had minor increased strength due to her transformation by the
Demon Bear as well as minor increased speed and reflexes.

