SHE-VENOM (also known as THE BRIDE OF VENOM) is the name of two
fictional characters in . The first She-Venom, ANN WEYING,
was the ex-wife of Eddie Brock. The second was Communications Specialist
PATRICIA ROBERTSON, the host of the VENOM-CLONE.


Fictional character biography

She-Venom (Ann Weying)

Ann Weying first appeared in Amazing Spider-Man #375. She was Eddie
Brock's ex-wife, a successful lawyer. In Ann Weying's first appearance,
she is a brunette with glasses. In later appearances she loses the
glasses and goes blonde. Weying assisted Spider-Man by sharing some of
Eddie's history with him. Later, she followed Spider-Man to the
amusement park where Venom had Peter's (fake) parents. She confronted
her insane ex-husband, and managed to convince Eddie to give up his
vendetta. Later, Sin-Eater shot Ann, who became She-Venom when the
symbiote temporarily bonded with her to save her life.

She-Venom then lashed out against the men who had hurt her with such
violence that Eddie became afraid for her (and of her) and compelled the
symbiote back to him. Ann retched upon seeing the pile of bodies she had
left behind. She claimed that the symbiote made her kill them, but Eddie
told her that the symbiote wouldn't force it's host to do something they
did not want to. Later the police incarcerated Ann on a false charge
(unrelated to Ann's rampage above) in order to trap Venom. Ann used her
one phone call to warn Eddie and make him promise not to come. He
promised that Eddie Brock wouldn't come to save her and instead sent his
Other (the symbiote) through the phonelines to her. After it bonded
with her she was able to break herself out of prison, heading to the
amusement park where she and Spider-Man had confronted Venom, only to
intercept a raid on a gang of drug dealers. During the fight, Eddie
was badly injured by a flamethrower, prompting Anne to release the
symbiote to heal him, but left him in disgust at his dependence on the
symbiote.

Ann Weying committed suicide after spotting Spider-Man webslinging in an
older black costume at a time when his regular red and blue suit had
been stolen. Ann, still reeling from the experience of bonding with the
symbiote months earlier and unable to deal with the return of Eddie
Brock into her life—coupled with Brock's transformation into Venom
directly in front of her as he ran off to kill Spider-Man—sent her over
the edge, and she leapt from her high rise apartment to her death.
Her death is later confirmed when her tombstone is shown.

She-Venom (Patricia Robertson)

Another She-Venom can be found in the form of Patricia Robertson in the
2003 Venom series.

Patricia Robertson was a communications specialist for the U.S. Army
stationed at a radar installation in Canada near the Arctic Circle. She
had joined the army in order to "prove herself" but got more than she
bargained for. During a routine supply run to an outpost owned by the
Ararat Corporation, she stumbled upon a grisly scene: everyone at the
installation was dead except for one lone scientist locked in the
freezer. She brought the survivor back to base for medical attention,
then people began dying there as well. It was revealed that the Azarat
Corporation was run by an alien colony of miniature spider robots that
infiltrated the American government. These creatures were partially led
by an entity named Bob.

These creatures had cloned Venom in order to fulfill their objective:
extermination of the human race. The clone would burn out its hosts'
life, unlike the real Venom (traits which seem to be a throwback to the
invading symbiotes seen in Planet of the Symbiotes). Bob had the clone
released and it caused the slaughter of the outpost.

The Venom clone hitched a ride on the survivor back to base, despite the
best efforts of Robertson and her new ally. The mysterious Suit was made
of the same robots as Bob, which was revealed to have been unwittingly
brought to Earth by Reed Richards and made into a special agent by Nick
Fury. It is unclear if the Suit's loyalties lie with Nick Fury or Bob,
if either. Meanwhile, the genetically altered symbiote killed all of
Patricia's friends and coworkers. While Robertson was unconscious, the
Suit cybernetically altered her, shaving her head, attaching a metal
pipe to it, and placing a control collar on her so that in case the
symbiote clone bonded with her she could control it. Meanwhile, Ararat
Co. and the spider-robots nuked Voici, Canada leaving the symbiote with
few options. After the Suit sabotaged the symbiote's favored host,
Wolverine, it was forced to jump to the last surviving potential host,
Robertson.

One of Bob's agents, disguised as the Suit, told Robertson that she had
to kill the real Venom or the symbiotes would destroy all of humanity.
Attempting to get to Venom, she freed him from S.H.I.E.L.D. custody.
Their first fight was broken up by the real Suit, and the electrocuted
Venom retreated. The Suit chided Robertson for coming to New York due to
there being many people in the city and all of the population could be
in danger if the symbiote clone jumped hosts.

Meanwhile, Bob remotely deactivated Patricia's control collar so that
nothing restrained the symbiote but Patricia's willpower. Robertson
continued trying to kill Venom, beating up Spider-Man when he got in the
way. She was captured by the Fantastic Four, who used her as bait to
lure Venom into a trap. Unfortunately, Spider-Man's interference and the
strength and craftiness of Venom caused the trap to fail. Fighting
again, Venom absorbed Robertson’s symbiote clone, as Bob hoped, and
increased in size and decided to carry out the Ararat Corporation's
goals. Patricia's fate is uncertain, and the clone was later
regurgitated by the symbiote onto Flash Thompson's neighbor Andi Benton,
creating Mania.


Other versions

 1602

During the Secret Wars storyline taking place in King James' England
(which is based off the  1602 reality), Anne Weying is a
"village beauty" who is brainwashed by a printer's apprentice named
Edwin Brocc into loving him with powers and potions supplied by the
Enchantress. Anne is freed after Brocc is slain by Angela.


In other media

Film

-   The viral marketing for The Amazing Spider-Man 2 includes Daily
    Bugle articles that make reference to Anne Weying being the defense
    attorney appointed to Curt Connors.

Novels

-   Ann Weying and Robbie Robertson are both abducted by terrorists in
    the 1998 novel Spider-Man: Venom's Wrath.


Footnotes

