SHE-HULK (LYRA) is a fictional superheroine appearing in comic books
published by . She is from an alternate future of 's
main timeline, and is the daughter of that reality's Thundra and the 616
Hulk.


Publication history

Created by writer Jeff Parker and artist Mitch Breitweiser, Lyra first
appeared in a one-shot story entitled Hulk: Raging Thunder #1 (August
2008), and then in Hulk Family: Green Genes #1 (February 2009). The
character "received enough of a positive fan response to earn her a
try-out in a brand-new mini-series." So in 2009 All New Savage
She-Hulk, a four-issue limited series, began, written by Fred Van Lente
with pencils by Robert Q. Atkins and Peter Vale.

She-Hulk appeared as a supporting character in Avengers Academy
beginning with issue #20 (Dec 2011), making several appearances
throughout the series.


Fictional character biography

Following the failed assassination attempt during which a key component
of the male genetic birthing matrix—stolen to replace an identical
component of the Femizon's matrix—is destroyed, Lyra is dispatched back
in time to the era of Dark Reign on Earth-616 in a last-ditch attempt
to prevent the extinction of her people. Assisted by Boudicca, a digital
wrist toy reprogrammed with Femizon technology, Lyra begins seeking the
greatest hero of the era—by which she inevitably means a man, due to the
word's definition male-specific curse in her culture. Due to many of the
warring tribes of men having taken former heroes such as Wolverine and
Sentry as symbols of worship to continue their war on the Femizons, Lyra
hopes that by killing the greatest hero, the men will have nothing to
worship and many Femizons will be spared.

She comes into conflict with the original She-Hulk (Jennifer Walters),
and the two had a battle. In this fight, She-Hulk makes references to
Thundra and how she looks similar to Lyra, which angers Lyra. It is then
discovered that Lyra becomes weaker as she becomes angrier. Before
Jennifer can capitalize, the Sentry intervenes. Lyra tells the Sentry
that she is looking for the greatest hero, and the name of that hero is
Norman Osborn. When Lyra finally manages to confront him, she reveals
that her mission is not to kill him, but to breed with him. Upon
kissing him, she recollects all the evil he will be responsible for
creating in the future and refuses to go through with it. Norman and the
rest of the Dark Avengers corner Lyra, but Jennifer Walters rushes to
her aid. Both manage to escape by the aid of A.R.M.O.R. Instead of
returning to her Earth, Lyra decides to stay and become an agent of
A.R.M.O.R.

Lyra went out in search of Jennifer Walters, as only she could help her
in orientation on Earth-616. However, she is attacked by the Gamma
Corps, who were hired by Osborn to capture her and Boudicca to recover
incriminating files she stole from Osborn and to gain knowledge of the
future that would be beneficial to Osborn. Lyra, however, proves to be
too difficult to capture. She is later seen in the company of Red
She-Hulk and M.O.D.O.K and has joined their ranks for unknown
reasons. After Thundra betrays Intelligencia to aid Red Hulk, Lyra
takes her position in the Frightful Four.

It is later revealed that Lyra only joined The Frightful Four in hopes
of getting information on Jennifer's whereabouts. She finds her in
stasis on an Intelligencia base. Lyra manages to free her, but both
are attacked by Red She-Hulk. After a brief fight with her, they
manage to convince her to fight alongside them to stop
Intelligencia. Following the defeat of Intelligencia, Lyra begins
traveling with her father, brother, Jennifer, Rick Jones, and Betty
Ross.

During the Fear Itself storyline, Lyra teams up with Namor, Loa, and
Doctor Strange when Namor needs help reclaiming New Atlantis from
Attuma, who was transformed into Nerkodd: Breaker of Oceans. The group
is even assisted by Silver Surfer when he arrives to help.

Following the Fear Itself storyline, Lyra is seen as part of the new
class of students when the Avengers Academy moves to the former
headquarters of the West Coast Avengers.

After her time at the Avengers Academy, Lyra later resurfaces on an
environmental crusade against fracking operations by large corporations.
The Hulk, now controlled by his Doc Green persona, ambushes Lyra and
attempts to defeat her as part of his plan to rid the world of
Gamma-powered superhumans. He plans to send her back to her original
timeline, but the process is hijacked by Doc Green's A.I., Gammon, who
instead traps Lyra in a hellish alternate dimension. Randall Jessup
and Daman Veteri (two of Doc Green's assistants) eventually manage to
track down Lyra, only to find that she has become the empress of the
dimension she was banished to, enslaving the male population and forming
a peaceful matriarchy. The three are accidentally teleported back to
Earth-616, and Veteri and Jessup agree to become Lyra's servants until
they can find a way to get her back to her kingdom.


Powers and abilities

In a calm state, Lyra possesses vast superhuman strength, which she is
able to enhance further through a meditative fighting-trance (that also
greatly enhances her sensory perception of her surroundings), as well as
superhuman stamina, durability, agility and speed.

Although comparable to Colossus for example, even when at her peak, Lyra
possesses less raw power than the base/calm level of the original
She-Hulk. Unlike her father, Hulk, Lyra actually becomes weaker rather
than stronger when she gets angry. She still maintains super-human
strength, with her lowest strength being equivalent to that of
Spider-Man. This was done by her Femizon creators, as a fail-safe way to
keep her from turning on them. Her father had injected her with
power-inhibiting or modifying S.P.I.N. technology that negated the
weakness, allowing her to transform into a nonpowered human state at
will and turn into her Hulk form when angry like the rest of her
family. However, this alternation was only temporary and her powers
had returned to the way they were when she joined The Defenders.

Lyra developed a technique that enables her to fight in a trance-like
meditative state when she is completely calm and at peace. Through her
practice, Lyra can feel minute traces of gamma rays in every human being
and use them to heighten her perception and reflexes, and in this state
apparently possesses higher fighting skill than any of her other family
members, being able to single-handedly summarily defeat the entire team
of Norman Osborn's "Dark Avengers", with the exception of the
Sentry.

Lyra can leap over 600 feet upwards, and 1000 feet across. She also
possesses an immunity to the Venom symbiote—which she calls the "black
bloom"—due to a vaccination injected when she was a child.

Thanks to her upbringing she is an expert fighter and killer with
experience fighting super powered humans as well as military types. She
is also familiar with a wide variety of future tech and knows a lot of
future history which, despite her best efforts, seems to be unfolding
the way she was taught it did.


In other media

Video games

-   Lyra appears as an alternate costume/character for She-Hulk in
     vs. Capcom 3: Fate of Two Worlds.


Collected editions

-   All-New Savage She-Hulk vol. 2 #1–4

