The SHIVER MAN is a fictional character in the  Universe. The
character appeared in Wolverine #163-166'' ("The Hunted" storyline).


Fictional character biography

The Shiver Man is a character of obscure origins; in his appearances,
characters speculate that he is a soul condemned to walk the earth
forever for an unknown crime, which was revealed to be that he was once
a man named CALEB JACKSON who lived in the old Wild West America and
killed armed men who had hidden in a church, because he was seeking
revenge against them for killing his wife.

During the fight, Caleb accidentally gunned down a priest in the
crossfire just before he finished putting a curse on Caleb, stating that
soon after Caleb died himself, he would walk the Earth forever as some
kind of restless undead creature for bringing violence into his church.

More than a hundred years later he returns as an undead bounty hunter
with supernatural powers; it's also revealed he's worked with Nick Fury
on occasions when Fury works outside of S.H.I.E.L.D.. For instance, when
Wolverine is a fugitive, hunted for supposedly murdering a senator, Fury
hires the Shiver Man to bring Wolverine directly to him instead of to
S.H.I.E.L.D. The Shiver Man tracks Wolverine and Beast and attacks them,
sensing that Wolverine was guilty of the murder. However, he loses the
pair to a corrupt faction of S.H.I.E.L.D.

Jackson uses Sabretooth, then a member of the Weapon X Program, to bring
the two X-Men to a secret facility. The Shiver Man rescues them,
destroying the facility, and destroying the Program's files on all past
Weapon X employees.

Learning that the Weapon X Program had been controlling Wolverine's mind
during the murder, the Shiver Man dissipated before confronting
Wolverine again.

Shiver Man was also featured in a story in the 2009 volume of
Astonishing Tales, still working for Fury.


Powers and Abilities

Taking on a ghostly form, Shiver Man has superhuman tracking abilities;
psionic or magical in nature. He also has enhanced strength and agility,
and can reattach severed limbs lost in combat.

He can teleport and transform his body into a mist like form which he
can use to phase through people and objects, even doing internal damage
if he wishes.

He carries 2 pistols with him and whenever he shoots with them, flaming
bullets come out instead of regular bullets. He is incredibly stealthy,
and cannot be detected by scent or heartbeat, to people with enhanced
senses like Wolverine.

Due to the curse put on him, he appears to have a form of longevity or
possible immortality.

