SHOLA INKOSI is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by . He is a mutant with the power of
telekinesis. He first appeared in Mekanix #1, and was created by Chris
Claremont and Juan Bobillo.


Fictional character biography

Born in Genosha, Shola was smuggled out as a child as a foreign exchange
student. After he grew older, he attended the University of Chicago.
When Cassandra Nova had "Mega-Sentinels" destroy Genosha, Shola lost his
entire family, who had been living at the island during the time. He was
left utterly alone, not only because of the loss of his family and home,
but also with the revokation of his student visa when the United Nations
declared Genosha a terrorist state due to the activities of Magneto.
Also, an anti-mutant group called PURITY was trying to get Shola
deported and expelled from the college he was attending. To add insult
to injury, Shola had been in contact with a telepath on Genosha the
moment that the island was destroyed leaving him with a mental imprint
of the "death-moment" of everyone who died on Genosha during the
horrific attack. Every time he closes his eyes and goes into an active
rapid eye movement state, he experiences another first-hand death from
that terrible day. As a result he can't sleep and hasn't slept since.
After the attack Shola briefly remained at the University of Chicago,
where he met Kitty Pryde and Xi'an Coy Manh and helped them defeat a
remnant of the wild Sentinels that had destroyed his home. Shola was
instrumental in their destruction as Karma's telepathic powers were
useless on the machines, and they quickly adapted to Shadowcat's phasing
ability.

In his next appearance he had been captured and placed in stasis by a
group of Magistrates which used to dominate the island before Magneto
took over. Along with the Prime Sentinel Karima Shapandar it appeared
that they were going to be the secret weapons of the Magistrates to take
back the island. However the airplane that was carrying them crashed and
Shola found himself on the side of the ragtag members of the newest
incarnation of Excalibur. His abilities were indispensable to Professor
X in the demolition and reconstruction of his homeland.

In the wake of Decimation, where the Scarlet Witch erased the mutant
genome from 90-95% of the mutant population, the members of Excalibur
were depowered, then temporarily repowered by Quicksilver with the
Terrigen Mists of the Inhumans. 


Powers and abilities

Shola is a self-described "combat telekinetic". His considerable
telekinetic abilities are mostly destructive in nature, but he has also
displayed precise fine motor control, the peak of which was obliterating
a granite slab to dust, removing that dust from clothing and the
surrounding environment, compacting the dust into a granite spear, then
re-obliterating the spear back into dust (shown in Mekanix). However,
in the Excalibur series his powers were mostly destructive.

Shola also had some limited telepathic abilities, enabling him to
connect minds with others telepaths and engage in normal telepathic
communication. His ability also allowed him to sense the mental state of
others. The ability was usually relatively controlled except when strong
emotional force triggered it - ultimately resulting in constant struggle
and the inability to sleep upon the death of all Mutants on Genosha.


Notes

Shola's costume in Excalibur (pictured above) is strikingly similar to
the Magistrate uniform, hinting at his planned involvement in their
organization.


Ultimate 

Ultimate Shola Inkosi is featured as a former mutant prisoner of Camp
Angel and joined Kitty Pryde's resistance in the Ultimate 
title, Ultimate Comics: X-Men. Inkosi has also been in contact with
Nick Fury, during the Nimrod invasion.

