SHOOTING STAR is a comic book superheroine appearing in American comic
books published by . The character was created by writer
Bill Mantlo and penciller Sal Buscema and first appeared in Incredible
Hulk vol.1 #265 (November 1981). She is a member of the Rangers, the
American Southwest superhero team.


Publication history

Writer Bill Mantlo and penciller Sal Buscema created the superheroine
Shooting Star and the superhero team the Rangers, and both first
appeared in the story "You Get What You Need!" published in Incredible
Hulk vol.1 #265 (November 1981). In addition to their new
character, the team consists of western characters Firebird, Texas
Twister, the Phantom Rider (Hamilton Slade, then called Night Rider),
and the contemporary Red Wolf. The next year, she appeared in the
third issue of  Super Hero Contest of Champions along with his
colleague Texas Twister.

Shooting Star has been identified as one of the 142 registered
superheroes who appear on the cover of the comic book Avengers: The
Initiative #1. The character appeared in the issues 2 and 19 of this
series.

In 2012, writer Chris Yost chose the Texas team the Rangers to come into
conflict with Houston's new superhero Scarlet Spider in the story "The
Second Master" in Scarlet Spider #7-9. In an interview with
Comic Book Resources, at a question about the antagonists in the story,
Chris Yost answered "You'll also be seeing a well known super-hero group
from the American southwest named -- wait for it -- The Rangers! Texas
Twister! Shooting Star! Red Wolf! Living Lightning! Firebird! Even a new
hero or two! And spoiler alert -- Scarlet Spider will fight them.".

Shooting Star has entries in the Official Handbook of the 
Universe vol.1 #10, OHOTMU Deluxe Edition #11 and Official Handbook
of the  Universe A To Z Update #2 (2010).


Fictional character biography

Origins

Shooting Star was born VICTORIA STARWIN, in El Paso, Texas. She is the
daughter of Remington Starwin, a wealthy Texas oil baron and amateur
rodeo performer. When she was a child, her father encouraged his
daughter's aspirations to perform professionally in rodeos. He hired
scientists to build for her a special six-shooter that shoots
star-shaped paralysis pellets for her sharp-shooting act. At some point
in her performing career, she met a rodeo performer and former
superhuman adventurer, the Texas Twister, and the two formed a dual act.
Her father then had scientists design a pair of jet-boots that enabled
her to stabilize her flight when swept up in the Twister's cyclonic
vortex.

Rangers

Shooting Star and Texas Twister were the star attractions at Cody's
Rodeo Extravaganza when they intercepted a shortwave radio message sent
by Rick Jones meant for the hero team known as the Avengers. Jones was
being held captive by the villainous Corruptor, who had the Hulk under
his influence. Shooting Star and Texas Twister went to answer the
distress call and discovered that three other individuals had responded
as well — Firebird, the Phantom Rider (then called Night Rider), and Red
Wolf. Although the five Southwestern adventurers were unable to stop the
Hulk's rampage, they did enable him to defeat the Corruptor. At the
battle's end, Texas Twister suggested that the five of them get together
whenever a threat to the Southwest crops up. They agreed and took the
collective name of the Rangers. However, because of the geographical
separation among the members, the first incarnation of the Rangers did
not last long.

Shooting Star's identity was at some point taken over by a demon named
Riglevio in the employ of Master Pandemonium, who believed Firebird to
be one of the possessors of his fragmented soul. To keep the Rangers
from meeting regularly and perhaps posing a threat to him before he had
completed his study of Firebird, Pandemonium dispatched the demon to
take Shooting Star's place. Firebird nevertheless believed the demon to
be hiding among the Avengers' West Coast branch and with her guidance
the Rangers confronted the heroes, only to flush the demon in Shooting
Star out of hiding. The demon claimed that Shooting Star was a human
guise it had taken long before, that there never was a Victoria Star.
The Avengers imprisoned the demon at their Compound and began an
investigation of Master Pandemonium, but the Texas Twister,
demonstrating a curious lack of concern, did not accompany them.

Soon, however, Texas Twister returned to the Avengers Compound at a time
when Hawkeye was alone, demanding to see the captive demon. Twister
declared his love for the demon, which turned back into Shooting Star.
Texas Twister went on to explain that the demon had come to him months
ago when Twister's powers seemed to be fading, making him afraid that
he'd lose Shooting Star if their rodeo act broke up on account of his
lost powers. The demon offered to augment the Twister's powers in
exchange for his soul, and the Twister agreed, but after his powers were
restored he begged to be spared, so the demon possessed Shooting Star
instead, casting a spell that prevented Twister from telling anyone
about this. Twister studied the occult until he found a means to expel
the demon from Star. The demon then possessed Twister himself and
battled Hawkeye and Shooting Star. Ultimately, Star threatened to kill
the demon rather than allow the possession to continue, and the demon
reluctantly imprisoned itself in a statue. Texas Twister and Shooting
Star were reunited.

Initiative/Secret Invasion

After the Civil War event, as a registered hero, Victoria Starvin
trained at Camp Hammond, before becoming a member of Texas' new
government-sponsored superhero team, the Rangers. Using a floating
base called a 'Terrorcarrier', HYDRA attacks Crawford, Texas, a vacation
spot for President George W. Bush. Shooting Star is seen attempting to
convince the President to leave his home and get to cover away from the
HYDRA attack, but he refuses, saying he has faith in the Initiative. The
superheroine and her fellow Rangers join a large group of heroes in
attacking the carrier which is destroyed and the President is
unharmed.

Shooting Star later helps the Initiative repel the Skrull invasion. She
begins to succumb to a lethal gas used by the Skrull impersonating
Yellowjacket, but is saved by the quick intervention of the
super-speedster Whiz Kid (on the original script, she was yanked away in
time by Great Lakes Avengers member Flatman) and recovers
immediately.

The Rangers come into conflict with Kaine alias Scarlet Spider in
Houston, then they joined forces with him to battle a
monster made of pure energy.


Skills, abilities and equipment

Shooting Star has no known superhuman powers, although in her initial
appearance she claimed to have "stellar powers." She is an expert
markswoman and rodeo rider. Shooting Star wears a pair of
specially-designed "star shooters", which look like six-shooters but
which actually shoot projectiles made of an unknown material, shaped
like five-pointed stars. The stars paralyze living beings they hit, with
one star capable of paralyzing a man for approximately 30 minutes. She
wears boots which contain miniature gyroscopes, which keep her oriented
correctly as she rides the winds generated by Texas Twister.


Other versions

In Fantastic Four Big Town, Shooting Star is a blonde superhero
created by Professor X and Henry Pym. Her real name is "Vicki" and she
possesses flight and energy powers which manifest as glowing circles
around her hands.

