The SHROUD (MAXIMILLIAN QUINCY COLERIDGE) is a fictional superhero
appearing in American comic books published by .


Publication history

The Shroud first appeared in Super-Villain Team-Up #5 (April 1976) and
was created by Steve Englehart and Herb Trimpe.

Englehart has acknowledged that the character was intended as a "mashup"
of ' Batman and The Shadow.


Fictional character biography

At the age of 10, the child who would grow up to become The Shroud saw
his parents gunned down right before his eyes. He decided to dedicate
his life to fighting crime. Upon graduation from college, he joined the
mysterious temple called "Cult of Kali", where he studied various styles
of martial arts. After seven years of intense training, he graduated
from that temple. During the celebration ceremony, he was branded with
the "Kiss of Kali", a red-hot iron. He had the image of the goddess Kali
imprinted in livid scar tissue on his face from nose to hairline and
from cheek to cheek. Following a period of intense pain and
hospitalization, he realized that his eyesight had been replaced by a
mystic extrasensory perception. Traveling back to the United States, he
adopted the masked identity of the "Shroud".

His first appearance as a hero was in Latveria, where he encountered the
Human Torch. He invaded Latveria, intending to kill Doctor Doom for
his crimes against humanity. Shroud recounted his origin to Namor the
Sub-Mariner, and the two secretly entered Latveria disguised as members
of the Ringmaster's Circus of Crime. Shroud joined Prince Rudolfo's
revolution against Doctor Doom, and came close to his revenge.
However, the Shroud shifted gears in order help Doctor Doom and Captain
America oppose someone else with a longer track record of crimes against
humanity: the Red Skull. In outer space, Shroud was shot by a ray built
by Red Skull while Doctor Doom battled Red Skull on the moon. Shroud was
rescued by Captain America, while Red Skull was left defeated on the
moon (he was later rescued by Hitler himself as the Hate Monger).
Captain America brought Shroud back to Earth, but because of his time in
space, Shroud became insane and it took him quite a while to recover.
After this recovery, Shroud discovered that he was able to tap into the
Darkforce dimension.

The Shroud later recruits Spider-Woman (Jessica Drew) to infiltrate a
S.H.I.E.L.D. facility so that they can access the files. Alongside
Spider-Woman, the Shroud battled the Cult of Kali. Shroud then took
on Cat and Mouse as his aides. He then teamed with Spider-Man against
Dansen Macabre. The Shroud aided the Avengers and Doctor Strange
against Morgan le Fay. He helped restore the former Spider-Woman's
astral self to her body. He later refused Hawkeye's offer to join the
West Coast Avengers. Shroud assisted a depowered Jessica Drew
against some crooks. He assisted the West Coast Avengers against
Graviton and the Blank.

The Shroud went undercover in Los Angeles and operating as a
crime-fighter masquerading as a criminal, he built a reputation as a
criminal so he could destroy their world from within. This led him to
create the group known as the Night Shift. With the Night Shift, he
teamed with Captain America against the Power Broker and his augmented
mutates. He tested Moon Knight to take over as leader of the Night
Shift. He refused Taurus's offer to join the new Zodiac. He
teamed with Hawkeye against the gang leader, Speedo. Behind the
scenes, Shroud made a deal with the West Coast Avengers not to interfere
with his activities underground, but during a battle, Shroud went
missing and the Night Shift battled the Avengers, causing a strain
between the groups when the Shroud stopped the battle. When Shroud
returned to action, it was revealed that he had spent some time with his
family, though no actual names of that family have ever been revealed.
Shroud made few appearances in the years following.

When the Superhero Registration Act was proposed by the United States
during the Civil War storyline, Shroud refused to accept the proposal
to give up his secret identity, and sided against heroes such as Ms.
 and Iron Man. He is also in a romantic relationship with Julia
Carpenter (now known as Arachne). With Julia's help, Shroud managed to
escape from Ryker's Island, injuring a number of S.H.I.E.L.D. agents in
the process. The two of them planned to flee to Canada with Rachel
(Julia's daughter), but Wonder Man and Ms.  captured Shroud,
and Julia the following issue. He is then broken out, in order to
join Captain America's anti-registration army and takes part in the
final battle.

During the Shadowland storyline, Shroud is paired with Silver Sable,
Misty Knight, and Paladin when Daredevil's Hand ninjas target members of
the mafia.


Powers and abilities

Exposure to bombardment of the Red Skull's hypno-ray triggered a latent
power over darkness in the Shroud. Shroud possesses the mystical ability
to create an aperture into Darkforce Dimension and to project the thick,
inky gas-like substance of the Darkforce Dimension into Earth's
dimension for his own use. This darkness is not simply the absence of
light, but the negation of it. No illumination can penetrate it. It is
unknown how much of this darkness Shroud can summon at once. He can
blanket a small auditorium in darkness within several seconds. The
darkness he projects does not fill a volume instantly: it is possible to
see its hazy boundary move like thick, black smoke in the air. There
appears to be no limit to the length of time Shroud can maintain the
darkness. However, loss of concentration can disrupt his power to summon
and control darkness, and if Shroud is rendered unconscious the darkness
seems to be naturally drawn through the portal from which it came.

The Shroud has control over the darkness so as to create hazy-edged,
featureless black shapes with it, the complexity of which is limited
only by his imagination. For example, he once created two discs that
covered Captain America's eyes, preventing him from seeing anything or
becoming hypnotized, yet so small that they were indistinguishable from
the pupils of his eyes. He frequently forms the darkness into his
own shadow in order to serve as a decoy. Unlike Darkstar's Darkforce,
the darkness possesses no mass, and unlike Cloak, Shroud is unable to
travel into and out of the dimension from which he draws his darkness.
He eventually learned to give his darkness enough mass to serve as a
low-level thruster. Together, with the properties of his cape, this
allows him to fly at least at walking speed.

The Shroud was blinded in a mystic ceremony by the Cult of Kali. As a
result of this ceremony, he possesses a mystical sense of extrasensory
perception enabling him to "see" through walls and even through his own
mantle of darkness. This mystical sense gives him psychic impressions of
his environment within a radius of about . Not unlike Daredevil, Shroud
can receive non-visual sensory impressions through solid objects. Thus,
he can perceive people and objects in the room next to him with the ease
that he can perceive the contents of the room he is in. His mystic
senses can even enable him to detect the internal hardware components of
a computer.

The Shroud is an Olympic-level athlete with extensive training in
several fields of Oriental martial arts, and is adept at acrobatics and
infiltration. He possesses a college degree in law and criminology.
Shroud carries explosive "bombarangs" as weapons, and flies in a
personal one-man aircraft.


Other versions

Ultimate 

An Ultimate  incarnation of Shroud is a superhero that debuts in
Ultimate Comics: Spider-Man #1 as a supporting character. This version
wears a red shroud, obscuring the face. Writer Brian Michael Bendis
notes "We'll be teasing this person. You won't know if they're male or
female but it is someone very famous and we'll be revealing their
identity in the first arc... This Shroud is very different from the
 Universe one. Our Shroud is someone you've seen. They're a
survivor of Ultimatum who for some reason feels they can't show their
face anymore.” In issue six, the character is revealed to be KITTY
PRYDE.

