SIEGE (JOHN KELLY) is a fictional character, owned by , who
exists in the  Universe.


Creative origins

John Kelly was initially created by Dwayne McDuffie and Gregory Wright
as a pseudo-preview of their then-upcoming relaunch of Deathlok as well
as to provide existing in-continuity backstory for that series prior to
its launch. Gregory Wright is solely credited for re-creating him as
Siege.


Fictional character biography

After reverse engineering and deconstructing the body of the original
Deathlok, Luther Manning, Harlan Ryker of the Roxxon Oil subsidiary
Cybertek Systems built a proto-type of a new, vastly improved Deathlok
cyborg. Colonel John Kelly, a disenfranchised veteran of the Vietnam War
who had recently been fired from his job as a police officer,
volunteered to become a scientific guinea pig, serving as the wetware
basis for Ryker's project. The remains of John Kelly's original body
have been incorporated into the framework of the Deathlok cyborg.
However, in his first outing as the professional soldier Deathlok he
rebelled against his computer's pre-programmed mission objectives and
the onboard computer system electrocuted his brain as it determined
Kelly to be 'malfunctioning.'

Some time later, after Michael Collins had been operating as Deathlok
for a number of months, the remains of John Kelly's brain were mutated
into the horrific creature called BIOHAZARD. Collins then discovered
within the Deathlok computer's databanks a file named "John Kelly."
Opening this file he discovered a copy of John Kelly's consciousness
preserved as pure data inhabiting the file in a dormant state. Upon his
opening of the file, the copy of Kelly infected Michael Collins's own
brain operating as a second consciousness to the annoyance of them
both.

This situation did not persist long, however, as shortly afterwards
Deathlok discovered Harlan Ryker to be working on a new, much improved
series of cyborg soldiers, this time with lobotomized brains to avoid
the issues he had experienced with both Kelly and Collins. During the
ensuing battle the copy of Kelly's consciousness was transferred into
the mind of one of the newer cyborgs, freeing Collins from playing host
to his unwanted guest and giving Kelly back a semblance of life. As a
cyborg, with Deathlok, Silver Sable and the Wild Pack, he battled
Mainframe, Ben Jacobs, and the Cyberwarriors. Kelly christened himself
Siege after a nickname an old war buddy had given him. With Deathlok
and Coldblood, he battled Harlan Ryker, Mainframe, Ben Jacobs, and the
Cyberwarriors.

Siege operated as a mercenary for some time working for Silver Sable,
S.H.I.E.L.D., and various others. With Silver Sable, the Wild Pack, Next
Wave, and the Knights of Wundagore, he battled the Genesis Coalition and
the Cyberwarriors. He defeated an airstrike on U.S. troops by a
hostile foreign power in the mideast. With Deathlok, he battled
Timestream and his mercenaries in Australia. With Deathlok, he
experienced the Goddess's epiphany. Alongside Daredevil, he battled
Venom and the Hand. With Deathlok and Godwulf, he battled
Timestream, the Demolisher, and Luther Manning in the past.

The Initiative /  Zombies 3

During the Superhero Civil War, Siege joined the Initiative and was
assigned to lead the Florida state team the Command, along with Wundarr
the Aquarian, Jennifer Kale and the Conquistador. The team investigates
a disturbance in the Citrusville swamp (home to the Nexus of all
Realities). The Conquistador is torn apart. Wundarr is infected but
purges himself. Siege is bitten on the face by a zombie and despite his
cybernetic nature was quickly turned as well. He attacks Jennifer Kale,
saying he only wanted her on the team because of her 'barbarian bikini'
outfit she formerly wore. His onboard computer alerts A.R.M.O.R. to the
fact that he was seemingly malfunctioning. The cyborg part shoots off
Siege's head.


Powers and abilities

As Siege, John Kelly possesses superhuman strength speed, stamina, and
durability, and is said to be stronger than the Michael Collins version
of Deathlok. Siege possesses a massive cyborg body. The left half of
his face is in a semi-decomposed state. The right half of his face is in
an armored cybernetic implant. He is an excellent hand-to-hand combatant
with extensive combat training. Siege's built-in database is capable of
a myriad of functions, including long-range surveillance and tracking
systems and self-diagnostic and repair functions. As Kelly's personality
and mental patterns have been encoded into the Siege cyborg body in
machine language, Siege is impervious to mental scans. Siege's
simplified digestive system can only absorb a liquid nutrient formula;
he cannot digest ordinary food. Siege cannot feel any tactile
sensations.

He also possesses a wide array of weapons and sensor systems, as well as
jet boosters built into his legs enabling flight at supersonic speeds.
Siege's cyborg body possesses a built-in Gatling assembly on his right
forearm capable of discharging 100 low-yield plasma bursts per second.
His right forearm contains a built-in plasma cannon capable of
significantly more powerful discharges. He wears a woven metal-mesh body
suit of considerable durability. His paraphernalia was designed and
manufactured by former Cybertek scientists including Ben Jacobs, Stanley
Cross, Dr. Hu, Dr. Fox, and Dr. Borruso.

Possibly because the organic portions of his body are not his own, or
possibly because the brain he inhabits was lobotomized, Siege is unable
to feel anything physically and has a very limited emotional range.
Michael Collins theorized the cause of this was that Siege was not
actually John Kelly, but simply a rogue data packet that believed itself
to be Kelly; regardless, he has acknowledged that Siege is alive. Siege
has described the way he experiences his pseudo-life as being akin to
playing a video game.

