SILVER FOX is a fictional character in the  universe
created by Chris Claremont and John Buscema. The character's first
appearance was in Wolverine vol. 2 #10 (August 1989).

Silver Fox is a former love interest for Wolverine, and currently works
for the terrorist organization HYDRA.


Fictional character biography

Silver Fox is a member of the Blackfoot Indian Tribal Confederacy. In
the early to late 1900s, she lived with Wolverine as his lover in
Canada. She was allegedly murdered by Sabretooth on Wolverine's
birthday, but is later revealed to be alive and a member of "Team X",
the most formidable covert ops team the CIA had to offer. Fox eventually
betrays Team X and becomes a member of HYDRA, a subversive terrorist
organization.

Silver Fox reappears during the modern period when Wolverine tracks down
each member of the Weapon X staff, discovering the studios where many of
his memories, (he believes to be real) were staged. Allegedly she kills
the professor who had been in charge of the program after Logan left. At
this point it is revealed that Silver Fox is in command of a section of
HYDRA.

Shortly thereafter, Silver Fox captures the assassin Reiko, and forms an
alliance with Reiko's boss, Hand Jonin Matsu'o Tsurayaba. Matsu'o is in
the process of trying to buy Clan Yashida's underworld connections
before Mariko Yashida severs them entirely. Silver Fox dupes Reiko into
poisoning Mariko, giving Matsu'o what he wanted. Silver Fox's
motivations in this are unclear.

Later, when Mastodon, a member of the Weapon X Program, dies due to the
failure of his anti-aging factor, Silver Fox reunites with Logan, Creed,
Maverick, and Wraith. She is cold to Logan, and seems not to remember
having spent any pleasant time with him. The group infiltrates a secret
base and confronts the man who had implanted them with their false
memories: Aldo Ferro, the Psi-Borg. Ferro takes control of their minds
and this time makes Creed kill Silver Fox. After Ferro's defeat,
Silver Fox was to be buried in Salem Center. At the church, Logan
discovers that her body has been prepared for flight. The father at the
church notifies Logan that "a brick wall with an eyepatch" gave the
order. Suddenly, a S.H.I.E.L.D. carrier arrives with Nick Fury, who
states he never imagined the day when a top-ranking HYDRA member would
get a full honors S.H.I.E.L.D. burial. Wraith appears as well, having
orchestrated the entire funeral, stating "Salem Center meant nothing to
her". Wraith tells Logan that they found the cabin where he really had
lived with Silver Fox a lifetime ago. He gets permission to bury her
there, by himself with only a shovel and uses the part of the door with
"Silver Fox + Logan" in a heart that he had carved into it as a
headstone.

In Wolverine vol. 3 #50, Wolverine again relives the induced memory of
Sabretooth killing Silver Fox on his birthday, although this issue seems
to ignore her previous "return" to life.


Powers and abilities

Silver Fox possesses an artificial healing factor and an age
suppressant, allowing her to retain her looks after years of being
separated from Logan. Along with her tactile hypnosis.


In other media

Film

[|right|thumb|Lynn Collins as Kayla Silverfox in X-Men Origins:
Wolverine.]

-   Actress Lynn Collins plays Silver Fox in the 2009 film X-Men
    Origins: Wolverine. She is named KAYLA SILVERFOX and instead of the
    accelerated healing factor that she displays in comics, in the movie
    she possesses a tactile manipulation ability (similar to that of
    Alpha Flight's Murmur II) that she can use to persuade anyone she
    touches, with the exception of Logan or Victor (Sabretooth). She is
    in a relationship with Logan and works as a schoolteacher. Stemming
    from her Native American ancestry, she recites a story to Logan
    about a spirit named Kuekuatsheu (pronounced in the movie as
    koo-ay-koo-aut-soo and translates into 'Wolverine') who fell in love
    with the moon but was fooled by Trickster into stepping foot in the
    mortal world from which he could never return. Thus, Kuekuatsheu was
    parted forever from the moon, howling at her whenever he saw her.
    Subsequently, Kayla is responsible for Logan's choice of "Wolverine"
    as his alias after her apparent death at the hands of Sabretooth.
    However, when Logan discovers that she is not only alive but also
    working for William Stryker, he likens her to the Trickster who
    played Logan as the fool. Despite taking part in faking her death as
    a way for Stryker to copy Wolverine's powers and test the
    adamantium, Kayla assures Logan that her feelings for him were
    genuine and explains that Stryker has her sister Emma, (sharing the
    same name and powers as Emma Frost) in custody along with other
    mutants some of whose powers were pooled into the Deadpool project.
    During the final assault and escape from the Three Mile Island
    Facility, Kayla is mortally wounded by a gunshot. Logan finds her
    and begins to carry her to safety before he is shot with an
    adamantium bullet by Stryker. Before Kayla dies, she touches
    Stryker's leg and tells him to walk until his feet bleed, and then
    to walk some more. Unable to resist her command, Stryker walks away
    and only stops some time later when military officers apprehend him
    for questioning regarding the murder of General Munson. When Logan
    comes to after being shot, he discovers Kayla's dead body but
    doesn't remember her due to the amnesia brought on by the gunshot.
-   In The Wolverine, Logan's voice can be heard calling Kayla's name
    through one of his nightmares. Additionally, her voice can be
    briefly heard near the end of the film where archived footage was
    used for this.
-   When Wolverine prevented the Sentinel-dominated future from
    happening in X-Men: Days of Future Past, Kayla's death never
    happened, but it is unknown whether she is currently alive or not.

Television

[Maverick and Silver Fox]

-   Silver Fox appeared in the X-Men episode "Weapon X, Lies,
    and Videotape".

Video games

-   Kayla Silverfox appears in the video game adaptation of X-Men
    Origins: Wolverine voiced by April Stewart.

