SILVER SABLE (SILVER SABLINOVA) is a fictional antihero appearing in
American comic books published by , commonly in association
with Spider-Man. She is a mercenary, hunter of war criminals, the leader
of the Wild Pack, and CEO of Silver Sable International. Although
sometimes a legitimate mercenary, her methods and motives have sometimes
brought her into conflict with other superheroes. Occasionally, she is
seen as an ally of Spider-Man and other heroes.


Publication history

Created by Tom DeFalco and Ron Frenz, Silver Sable first appeared in
The Amazing Spider-Man #265 (June 1985). The inspiration for the
character comes from safari cards bought by Tom DeFalco. After her
debut, she made occasional appearances in various Spider-Man titles,
often (but not always) as an ally.  began to publish the
series Silver Sable & The Wild Pack in June 1992, written by Gregory
Wright and penciled by Steven Butler. This series lasted for 35 issues,
until it was canceled along with many other  series in 1995.

After the cancellation, Silver made occasional guest appearances in
various comics until early 2006. At that point a limited series began
featuring Silver Sable and Dominic Fortune titled Sable and Fortune.
Originally solicited as a six issue series, Sable and Fortune was
shortened to four issues after the release of issue one.


Fictional character biography

The operations of Wild Pack and Silver Sable International drive the
national economy of the fictional small European state of Symkaria. The
name Wild Pack had been used by the mercenary squad led by Cable for
some time, until a legal notice forced them to change it to Six
Pack.

The State of Symkaria is adjacent to Latveria, the nation that is ruled
by Doctor Doom. Silver Sable and Victor Von Doom have an annual
diplomatic dinner at Castle Doom, situated in Doomstadt. Apparently the
friendship between these two states is deep-rooted and dates back to
World War II.

The family of Silver Sable is composed of her father Ernst Sablinova,
her uncle Morty, and the young cousin Anna (orphaned daughter of an
unnamed uncle or aunt). Silver's mother was killed in front of her by
enemies of her father, who ran a Nazi-hunting group. Due to this
traumatic event and her Father's subsequent harsh training and treatment
of her, Silver Sable has dedicated herself to being both as emotionless
and as effective as possible in her professional life. Silver has been
known only to let one emotion—rage—overcome her reason, almost uniformly
when facing Nazi opponents or those who threaten her family. Other
subsequent mistakes involving emotion have only added to her
self-imposed need to control herself and affect an "ice queen" persona.
Most notably, Silver fell in love with and was married to the Foreigner,
an international assassin and the head of the 1400 Club, but they
"divorced" when she discovered his real work. Their relation today
varies between friendship, mere mutual tolerance, and attempts to kill
each other.

Uncle Morty functions as Sable's assistant. Morty organizes the
missions, keeps track of the accounting part, and many times tries to
remind Sable to retain her focus and sense of judgment (as Silver's
iron-clad emotional control and occasional fits of temper are often only
softened by feelings for her family).

Silver supports Anna's boarding school education and seemingly nothing
more. Her feelings were betrayed when HYDRA agents took over the school
and killed Anna's best friend. Sable infiltrated the school, rescuing
the survivors with the unwanted aid of Spider-Man and the aid of some of
her troops, against orders. Silver once hunted the international
criminal the Black Fox to recover valuable gems stolen by the thief, but
was inadvertently thwarted by Spider-Man. She was hired by a South
African republic to neutralize the international terrorist Jack
O'Lantern. She enlisted Spider-Man's aid against the Sinister Syndicate,
and first formed an alliance with the Sandman. Some time later, she
joined forces with Spider-Man, Paladin, Solo, and Captain America to
track down Sabretooth and the Red Skull, who masterminded a plot to put
the United States against Symkaria. The group is hired to clear up a
decade's old conspiracy resulting from a failed terrorist attack on New
York City.

She later hired Spider-Man to steal incriminating documents from a
Maggia money launderer, and then first encountered the Outlaws. An
intelligence mission in Iraq resulted in the death of a Wild Pack
member, and she denied compensation to the slain man's family due to his
negligence. She devised an initiation test for the Prowler to join
the Outlaws, and taught a lesson in humility. She hired the Outlaws
to retrieve a Symkarian nuclear device in England. She hired the
Outlaws to rescue the kidnapped daughter of a Canadian official.
With the help of Spider-Man, Sandman, and the Wild Pack, she rescued her
niece from a kidnapping by HYDRA. She then encountered a Doctor Doom
doppelganger.

Silver has collaborated with various superheroes, including the
aforementioned Spider-Man, the Punisher, Daredevil, Luke Cage, Venom,
Captain America, Deadpool and many others. Sandman was a mercenary for
Silver Sable International for a long time, heading the Intruders, the
squad of superpowered mercenaries in the employ of Silver Sable
International. Other heroes and reformed minor villains work for Silver
Sable International on occasion.

Like her father, Sable's squad focuses on bringing Nazi war criminals to
justice, though they have taken on many other types of missions. Her
group often flagrantly disobeys orders if they believe it is for the
greater good.

Sable's surprisingly cordial diplomatic relationship with Doctor Doom
would prove almost-fatal as the annual dinner happened to fall on the
time when Doctor Doom's castle had been overtaken by an alien
impersonator during the Infinity War crisis. The double did look
different, something Sable put down to Doom's desires to change his
look. During the dinner, Sable's driver is killed by Doom's robots and a
human butler is killed by the Doom double. Sable protests the brutality
and is attacked herself, leading to a chase throughout the castle. Again
defying her, her soldiers came to rescue her, despite Sandman himself
also having been replaced.

Later, Sable was hired to protect Professor Wolfgang Von Hessler holed
up in the Symkarian monastery of St. Eboars. Wolfgang knew of a powerful
genetic weapon and, attacked by guilt, was working on a neutralizing
agent to give to the world so the weapon would be useless.

Most of Sable's Wild Pack were out on assignments, so she hired a new
team. The Cat, a martial artist, Paladin, and what she thought was Nomad
but turned out to be Maap. The group fought the Heroes for Hire, who
had been hired to take the Professor. Sable's team had the upper hand
until Deadpool freed his Heroes allies and Power Man turned traitor,
sending the professor off to the villain Master of the World.

During the Shadowland storyline, Silver Sable ends up paired up with
Misty Knight, Paladin, and Shroud when Daredevil's Hand Ninjas end up
secretly targeting members of the mafia.

During the Ends of the Earth storyline involving one of Doctor
Octopus' schemes, Silver Sable recovers Spider-Man and Black Widow after
the Avengers are defeated by the Sinister Six—Spider-Man because of
experience with the Six and Widow simply because of closest to Sable's
cloaked plane. She joins them in an attack on a Sahara facility
controlled by Doctor Octopus, with the three successfully defeating
Sandman after Spider-Man's allies at Horizon Labs helped determine a
means of identifying the one particle of sand containing Sandman's
consciousness. She is apparently drowned by the Rhino in the final
battle when Rhino pins her to the ground in a flooding corridor in
Doctor Octopus' base, Rhino preferring to die after the loss of his own
wife and knowing that Spider-Man will blame himself for the death even
if Doctor Octopus' plan is stopped.

Madame Web later claims to Spider-Man that Silver Sable did not perish
in the fight within Doctor Octopus' underwater base.

She is later seen with other dead people in a post-mortem experience by
Peter Parker.


Powers, abilities, and equipment

Silver Sable is an athletic woman with no superhuman powers. She is a
formidable hand-to-hand combatant, and skilled in various martial arts,
and she is an expert markswoman, swordswoman, and gymnast. She also
possesses strong leadership capabilities.

Silver Sable wears synthetic stretch fabric lined with Kevlar throughout
the torso. She often carries a saber or rapier (dueling sword), chai
(three-pronged half-moon throwing projectiles), a 9mm pistol and
derringer. Silver Sable generally has the latest technology and
equipment at her disposal, provided by Silver Sable International.


Other versions

Spider-Verse

In the Spider-Verse storyline, a character resembling Silver Sable but
called Sable appears as a member of the Hounds who work for Verna of the
Inheritors. She and the other Hounds accompany Verna to Earth-1610 to
hunt Miles Morales. She is killed by the Superior Spider-Man, and
his allies Spider-Punk and Assassin Spider-Man.

Ultimate 

The Ultimate  iteration of Silver Sable is the mercenary leader of
the Wild Pack. A mercenary from Symkaria, she had a troubled
childhood, apparently ignored by her father and abused by her alcoholic
mother. In reality, her father hunted Nazis and she forgave him at his
deathbed and decided to follow in his footsteps. While an antagonist to
Spider-Man, she is not actually a villain so much as a bounty hunter,
and she holds no particular ill-will towards Spider-Man.

As the central villain in the "Sliver Sable" story arc, Silver Sable is
hired by Donald Roxxon to capture Spider-Man for questioning. After
weeks of tracking, Sable's mercenaries mistakenly capture Flash
Thompson. As they discussed whether to murder Thompson to prevent from
identifying them, Flash escaped. Sable's Wild Pack later captured and
brought Spider-Man to Roxxon. Not believing Spider-Man's information of
being there ironically, Sable and Roxxon do a background check using
Spider-Man, however, this causes a high level S.H.I.E.L.D. alert. While
listening to Roxxon's argument for protection, Sable's Wild Pack are
attacked by the Vulture. After escaping the chaos, Sable
threateningly demands Roxxon in paying the reward money and swears she
will kill Roxxon if their names are told to the authorities.

During the "War of the Symbiotes" story arc, Silver Sable and her Wild
Pack members are hired by Bolivar Trask to capture Eddie Brock Jr..
Sable and the Pack capture Venom after a fight with Spider-Man. However,
Sable spared Spider-Man from being taken by the Wild Pack as a "bonus"
and "thanks" for subduing Venom. After delivering Venom to Trask,
Sable's Wild Pack provide security for Trask's experiment to remove the
Venom symbiote. However, the Beetle breached the facility, paralyzing
Sable with knockout gas. Sable's Wild Pack later fights with the
Venom symbiote after organism abandoned Brock and possessed Spider-Man.
Sable's Wild Pack tries to subdue Venom, but were unable to until the
Ultimates arrive. Despite trying to escape and talk their way, the
Ultimates take into custody the Wild Pack with Sable being tranquilized
by the Wasp. Sable and the Pack were then imprisoned by S.H.I.E.L.D.

What If?

In the What If?_ storyline What If Spider-man had married the Black
Cat?_, after Black Cat is accidentally killed by the Paladin, Silver
Sable and Spider-Man enter into a romantic relationship due to their
shared grief over the loss of their loved ones. Uatu the Watcher leaves
it ambiguous whether this relationship will work out or not.


In other media

Television

[Silver Sable and her Wild Pack in Spider-Man: The Animated Series.]

-   Silver Sable appeared in the "Six Forgotten Warriors" saga of the
    Spider-Man TV series, voiced by Mira Furlan. Along with the Wild
    Pack, she served as an enemy to Spider-Man against both the Kingpin
    and the Red Skull. Sable was first seen hired by Rheinholt Kragor in
    order to gather information about the Doomsday device, capture two
    scientists in order to help operate it, and to keep it from falling
    into the hands of Kingpin. Sable later kidnapped Spider-Man, Kingpin
    and the Insidious Six for Rheinholt.

[Silver Sable in Spider-Man: The New Animated Series.]

-   Silver Sable appeared in two episodes of Spider-Man: The New
    Animated Series, voiced by Virginia Madsen. In the episode
    "Spider-Man Dis-Sabled", Spider-Man encounters Silver Sable
    attempting to assassinate the mayor of New York City and European
    Union Guest Harlan Tremain. As it turns out, Tremain is really an
    undercover terrorist "The Piranha" planning to kill the President.
    When Silver Sable discovers that Peter Parker had caught her on
    surveillance when she had attempted to kill him, she attacks Peter's
    apartment and kidnaps Mary Jane Watson, Harry Osborn and Indy. Peter
    later discovers that Sable is also posing as the mayor's assistant
    Jane Perkins but before Spider-Man can stop her from kidnapping the
    mayor and Tremaine, Spider-Man first has to save Peter's friends,
    which gives her time to get away. Spider-Man eventually catches up
    to her, though, and the two have a final showdown on top of the
    mayor's limo. It ends with the limo crashing off the Brooklyn
    Bridge. Spider-Man saves the limo before it hits the water, but
    Silver Sable falls off and she swims away shown by her air bubbles
    in the water. In the episode "Mind Games" (Part One), Silver Sable
    joins with Kraven the Hunter wanting to kill Spider-Man as revenge.
    Sable was then caught by Spider-Man and taken to jail. In the
    process, she told Kraven "There are other ways to get revenge
    on Spider-Man.". Kraven was thus inspired to kill Mary Jane.
    However, Sable's appearance was an illusion and part of a scheme by
    the Gaines twins to manipulate Spider-Man into thinking Kraven
    killed Mary Jane in the hopes that Spider-Man would kill Kraven. The
    Gaines twins sought vengeance for Kraven's murder of their father.
    Information on a computer screen indicates that Silver Sable comes
    from Russia instead of the fictional country of Symkaria.
-   Silver Sable appears in the second season of The Spectacular
    Spider-Man, voiced by Nikki Cox. This version is SABLE
    MANFREDI, the daughter of the crime boss Silvermane. Silver Sable
    represents her jailed father in an underground bidding organized by
    Oscorp for a chip that contains the technology to produce
    super-soldiers like the Rhino. However, she is opposed by Hammerhead
    and Roderick Kingsley. Silver Sable is defeated by Spider-Man but
    manages to escape police custody. She has a dislike for Hammerhead,
    due to the fact that they used to date. Sable later shows up with
    her father to a Valentine's Day meeting in the opera house with
    Tombstone and Doctor Octopus. Hammerhead betrays them all and
    injects Sable with a tranquilizer.

Video games

-   Silver Sable appeared in the Ultimate Spider-Man video game,
    voiced by Jennifer Hale. She appears as an assassin trying to hunt
    down both Spider-Man and Venom. Apparently in the game, Silver Sable
    knows Peter Parker is Spider-Man whereas she does not in the
    Ultimate Spider-Man comics, hinting that this game is not
    considered canon. In the game, she first appeared sending her Wild
    Pack on Venom but her team ends up defeated. Sable captures Venom in
    the museum later on. Afterwards, Sable uses Venom as bait for
    Spider-Man but Spider-Man escapes her again. Later, she kidnaps
    Spider-Man while in his civilian identity but Peter escapes and
    bests her in hand-to-hand combat even after being shot with a
    tranquilizer dart. However, after several more tranquilizer shots,
    Venom appears and knocks Sable unconscious. Spider-Man changes into
    the red-and-blue costume and must defend her from Venom. After Venom
    is defeated, Spider-Man finally succumbs to the darts. Sable is
    later seen before the final battle against Venom, saying that her
    contract with Bolivar Trask expired and that Trask doesn't know how
    to fly the helicopter that he is using to flee Venom. When
    Spider-Man is about to question her of what she's doing, Sable
    interrupts by saying it's "business is business" before leaving to
    deal with Trask.
-   Silver Sable appeared in Spider-Man: Battle for New York, voiced
    again by Jennifer Hale. She is hired by the Kingpin to deal with his
    "unpleasant business affairs". Silver is a boss battle for
    Spider-Man and the Green Goblin in the game.
-   Jennifer Hale reprises her role of Silver Sable in Spider-Man:
    Friend or Foe. This is her first playable appearance. She appears
    as more of a hero-type as she was one of the first people hired by
    Nick Fury besides the Prowler, Iron Fist (captured on
    Tangaroa Island) and lastly Spider-Man.
-   Silver Sable is a playable character in The Punisher: No
    Mercy.
-   Silver Sable appears in Spider-Man: Shattered Dimensions, with
    Jennifer Hale reprising the role. In the Amazing universe, she and
    her Wild Pack are trying to capture the supervillain Juggernaut for
    a bounty, but Spider-Man attempts to stop this even though they have
    a secondary bounty on the web-slinger. Upon the collapse of the
    in-construction OsCorp building on top of both Juggernaut and
    Spider-Man, Sable apparently gave up on the hunt, considering it a
    miracle if either target survived. In the end credits, it is
    revealed that she found Juggernaut sometime after the earlier fight.
-   Silver Sable appears as a gear vendor in the S.H.I.E.L.D.
    Helicarrier in the MMORPG  Heroes.
-   Silver Sable appears as a boss in Spider-Man Unlimited, voiced by
    Mary Elizabeth McGlynn.

