THERESA MAEVE ROURKE CASSIDY is a fictional superhero appearing in
American comic books published by , commonly in association
with the X-Men. Debuting under the codename SIRYN, she later retired the
name and started using BANSHEE, in honor of her late father, Sean
Cassidy, who first used the alias.

Like her father, the X-Men's Banshee, Theresa is an Irish mutant who
possesses a "sonic scream" capable of incapacitating and injuring an
opponent's hearing and sending powerful vibrations through the air. She
can use these vibrations to fly. Her name refers to the Sirens of Greek
mythology.

Theresa was raised by Banshee’s cousin and nemesis Black Tom Cassidy
without Banshee's knowledge. By her early teens, she left Black Tom and
eventually joined the X-Men offshoots X-Force and later X-Factor.


Publication history

Created by writer Chris Claremont and artist Steve Leialoha, Siryn first
appeared in Spider-Woman #37 (April 1981).


Fictional character biography

Early life

While Sean Cassidy was working on a deep undercover mission for
Interpol, his wife Maeve gave birth to their daughter, Theresa, at
Cassidy Keep, County Mayo, Ireland. Not much later, Maeve dies in an IRA
bombing. With no means to contact Sean, his cousin Tom takes care of
Theresa. When Sean returns to learn of his wife's death, he is
devastated. Before Tom can even tell him of the existence of his
daughter, Sean lashes out at Tom with his sonic scream for not having
taken better care of Maeve. While Sean flies away in anger, Tom falls
into a chasm, breaking his leg as a result of the attack, which leaves
him with a limp. Tom swears to make Sean pay and vows to never tell him
about his daughter, raising her himself instead.

Tom (now known as Black Tom) trains Theresa as his apprentice in his
criminal activities. While still a young teen, Theresa accompanies Black
Tom and his then-partner, the Juggernaut, to San Francisco. Here,
employing the name Siryn, she aids them in a theft of vibranium, and
battles the original Spider-Woman. Due to her inexperience, she
performs poorly in battle and is defeated by Spider-Woman again during
Black Tom's temporary capture. Initially believing her to be seriously
hurt, Black Tom resolves to break all association with her so that she
will not be exposed to further danger. While in custody, he exonerates
Theresa of responsibility for her crimes, and writes a letter to Sean
explaining who she is. The X-Men bring Theresa back to their
headquarters, where she is joyfully reunited with her father.

Muir Island

[X-Force #90 in which Feral injures Siryn.] Theresa soon moved to Muir
Island, home of the research laboratories of Dr. Moira MacTaggert, a
longtime ally of Professor Xavier. During an overnight visit to Xavier
Institute, Siryn, Kitty Pryde, Illyana Rasputin, and a young Muir Island
resident named Amp battled robotic duplicates of the Brotherhood of Evil
Mutants after accidentally releasing them from the Danger Room. Later in
the evening, Siryn engaged Kitty in a vicious fist fight after Amp
convinced her that the young X-Man was trying to sabotage her chances
with a young man named Dimitri. After the fight was broken up by
Wolverine, the girls reconciled and left on friendly terms. She also
accompanied Wolverine and Kitty when they were asked by Professor Xavier
to act as bodyguards for the mutant pop-star Dazzler. Dazzler was so
impressed with Theresa's rendition of "Amazing Grace", that she asked
the young mutant to act as a backing vocalist for her concert.

While living back on the island, Siryn started a romantic relationship
with the mutant known as Jamie Madrox. This version of Multiple Man
turned out to be one of his many duplicates and not the original
Multiple Man, leading to the end of the relationship. During this time
Siryn and Multiple Man traveled to New York City. She and Madrox
began a search to help the New Mutants find two of their members,
Sunspot and Warlock, who had run away from the school. In the course
of this adventure, Siryn and Multiple Man found Sunspot and met the
association of street-level mutants known as the Fallen Angels. They
were transported, with the Fallen Angels, to Devil Dinosaur's planet.
They then traveled to the "Coconut Grove", the home planet of the alien
Ariel. While there, her superhuman powers were neutralized, and she
was made a captive by Unipar of the "Coconut Grove" planet. She
regained her superhuman powers and freedom, and returned to Earth. She
decided to remain in the Fallen Angels for a time to help reform their
criminal members.

Later, back on Muir Island, she fell under the mental control of the
Shadow King. Before long, she was freed from the Shadow King's
control.

X-Force

[Deadpool and Siryn, by Karl Kerschl] Siryn becomes a core member of
X-Force, a paramilitary superhero team and for a time was its field
leader. As a member of X-Force, her teammate Warpath develops a romantic
interest in her while Siryn begins an ongoing flirtation with the
mercenary Deadpool. Deadpool and Siryn initially became involved when
the two met while fighting Black Tom Cassidy and the Juggernaut. Though
Banshee warns Siryn that Deadpool was a madman and a murderer, she found
herself quite taken with him, even looking past his horrific appearance.
Due to this kindness, Deadpool becomes infatuated with Siryn and often
sat outside her window as she slept in the X-Mansion. At first Siryn is
unaware of this, but she is comforted in knowing that he is watching
over her. Over time, Siryn became the voice of reason and sanity in
Deadpool's ear, attempting to sway him to the side of good. She assists
him in some of his missions, such as when Deadpool felt he needed some
blood from the Hulk in order to cure problems with his own healing
powers. In the end Siryn becomes overwhelmed with balancing her
duties with X-Force and the demands of Deadpool's somewhat faulty
sanity. She promises him that she would consider progressing their
relationship if he continues on the path of good, and once she has her
X-Force responsibilities secured. Warpath continues to seek Siryn's
affections, and makes his dislike for Deadpool clear during a visit to
the baseball diamond used in the movie, Field of Dreams.

Siryn confronts varied adversaries during her time in X-Force. She helps
put down a coup in the other dimensional realm of Asgard. She confronts
the forces of Onslaught and the interdimensional media mogul known as
Mojo. She even battles S.H.I.E.L.D. forces on more than one occasion.
She also confronts more down to earth problems, particularly alcoholism.
Warpath helps her to cope with her drinking problems, and as of recent
issues of X-Factor she is leading a sober lifestyle.

She becomes a vital part of the team, as opined by an aspect of Charles
Xavier, which saves the entire team from a near-death experience.

She leaves when Feral, a former teammate turned villain, slashes her
throat, destroying her vocal cords and rendering her temporarily mute
and powerless.

X-Corporation

Thanks to the aid of Deadpool, Siryn has since fully healed from her
vocal cord injuries. Deadpool tracked down Wolverine and stole a sample
of his blood to heal her.

Siryn joins the Paris branch of the international mutant task force
X-Corporation, claiming to atone for her father's sins for his failed
X-Corps idea. There she reunites with old friends such as Multiple Man,
Rictor and Cannonball, and works for the first time with Monet St.
Croix. Their first mission does not go well and Siryn has to deal
with the loss of teammate Darkstar.

X-Factor Investigations

Siryn leaves X-Corporation to become a member of X-Factor
Investigations. As part of her initial duties for X-Factor
Investigations, Siryn investigates the murder of a woman who died in a
movie star's penthouse, on behalf of the victim's sister. A rival firm,
Singularity Investigations, represented the actor with Damian Tryp, Jr.
as the defense counsel and to prove the star innocent. Siryn and
X-Factor Investigations manages to incriminate the star, and to thwart
Singularity Investigation's assassination attempt on Rictor. Damian
Tryp Jr. is so infuriated that he later ambushes Siryn and beats her,
leaving her to die in an alley. She was later found and taken hostage by
a mentally ill former mutant only to be rescued by Rictor.

While recovering from her injuries, Cyclops approaches Theresa and
informs her Banshee has died. Upon hearing of his death, she goes into a
state of denial, holding to the fact that many X-Men have been believed
dead only to later return alive.

During the Superhuman Civil War, Theresa opposes the registration act
and is tasked with contacting more high-profile superheroes about the
Decimation. After speaking with Spider-Man, X-Factor gets into contact
with Quicksilver and Cyclops' team of X-Men demanding they answer why
the reason behind the Decimation was kept secret and defy the
registration act.

Due to a love triangle with teammates Multiple Man and Monet St. Croix,
Siryn's relationships become strained with both teammates. After
spending a night drinking, Jamie Madrox awakens to learn that he and one
of his duplicates slept with Theresa and Monet. Although he is
initially uncertain as to which was which, he comes to conclude with
near certainty that it was he that slept with Theresa, and the dupe that
slept with Monet, though this does little to assuage Theresa and Monet's
anger. Theresa resolves her differences with both Madrox and Monet,
and the two women develop a budding friendship after a shopping trip to
Paris and partner together on later missions.

Theresa and Monet are sent to retrieve two famous child singers (who
specialize in mutant hate songs) from their parents, thanks to a court
order from their grandparents. The two end up being ambushed, knocked
out, and kidnapped by the children's mutant bodyguards, Solo and Clay.
They awake imprisoned, (Theresa is tied up with her mouth covered by
duct tape to prevent her from using her powers), but they both
escape and return the children to their grandparents. It is revealed
that the entire mission was a ruse by Josef Huber to lure the women away
from their X-Factor teammates. Both Monet and Siryn's mental-based
powers negatively affect Huber's mind-control abilities.

Messiah Complex

Theresa assists Rictor's infiltration of the Purifiers, and accompanies
M and Strong Guy, along with the rest of the X-Men, to rescue the mutant
baby and X-Force. She later receives a call from the mutant Peepers, who
is being pursued by Predator X, but Theresa arrives too late to help him
and finds what is left of his corpse. Siryn prays at the comatose
Jamie's bedside when he awakes, and takes part in the X-Men's assault on
the Marauders' base with Monet and Guido, taking on Exodus in the
battle.

Divided We Stand

Theresa reveals that she is pregnant with Jamie's child, and after
talking with Monet she reveals she intends on keeping it. When she
attempts to tell Jamie he mistakenly believes that she wants to quit
X-Factor. Monet later helps Theresa realize that she still loves Jamie
and attempts to tell Jamie again but Arcade makes his presence known in
Mutant Town; which he later destroys. After the ordeal is over, Jamie
reveals he knows she is pregnant and the team moves to Detroit, Michigan
to get away from Val Cooper and O*N*E.

Sean

After the move to Detroit, Theresa becomes inactive during X-Factor's
field missions. She comes to blows with Val Cooper upon finding out
X-Factor has been under the employ of O*N*E since the destruction of
Mutant Town. Val reveals her interest in Theresa's child and during a
heated discussion, Theresa's water breaks and she is taken to a
hospital. As Theresa goes into labor, she proposes to Jamie who
accepts. She gives birth to a boy, and they name him Sean after her
father, whose death she finally accepts. Just hours after his birth,
baby Sean is absorbed into Jamie's body as Jamie holds him, completely
against Jamie's will, to the horror of Jamie, Theresa and the rest of
X-Factor. Theresa attempts to save the baby and claws at Jamie's chest
to get him back but pops some of her stitches and goes back into
surgery. Later Jamie reveals Sean was an "infant dupe", and was absorbed
into him as a duplicate would, but a grieving Theresa; filled only with
rage declares after breaking Jamie's fingers that she will break his
neck next time she sees him.

Assuming leadership and departure

After the pregnancy, Madrox leaves the team and Theresa takes charge,
though she sinks into a depression because of recent events.
Following Madrox's return to the present, he offers to leave the team
headquarters in Detroit and restart a branch with Guido in New York. She
disbands the Detroit team, with the remaining members defecting to the
New York branch. Theresa returns home to Ireland where she runs into
Reverend John Maddox, one of Jamie's dupes. Reverend Maddox helps
Theresa cope with depression and she has a one-night stand with
Deadpool. After finally coming to terms with Banshee's death and
reconciling her grief, Theresa retired the codename Siryn and takes her
deceased father's codename as her own and begins calling herself Banshee
in honor of his memory.

Return to X-Factor Investigations

After Cable and Hope Summers return to the present during X-Men: Second
Coming, agents of the Mutant Response Division prepare to target Theresa
for assassination when she attempts to return to America. She is
later rescued by Layla Miller and Shatterstar; together they teleport
back to America and rejoin X-Factor in the final battle with the Mutant
Response Division.

Following the ordeal, Madrox accepts a new assignment from a disguised
Hela who is searching for a missing pendant of Thor's hammer. When Jamie
and Theresa track it down and take it off of the neck of a drunken bar
patron, he reveals he is none other than Pip the Troll. After a
brief fight; Hela appears, captures Pip and teleports back to her base
in Las Vegas. Angered by this and feeling responsible, the team
travel to Las Vegas and with the help of Thor, retrieve Pip from Hela's
domain.

The team is later hired by J. Jonah Jameson when an old friend of his is
killed. Thinking the murderer may come after him, Theresa acts as his
personal bodyguard. During a protest, Theresa receives an image of the
murderer, who is revealed to be a woman named Ballistique. At that
moment, Theresa sees Ballistique talking to J. Jonah Jameson and tries
to attack by launching a powerful sonic scream at her but due to
Ballistique's close proximity to Jameson, the police think Theresa is
attempting to attack Jameson. The police attempt to stop Theresa by
attacking her with their nightsticks but not before she can warn Monet
of Ballistique. During the ordeal, Guido is seriously wounded. Monet
takes him to the hospital where Theresa attempts to console her.

Theresa and the rest of X-Factor later become the target of various
mystical Canine and Feline deities who are attempting capture Wolfsbane
and her unborn baby. After the baby is born, it attempts to attack
Theresa and Madrox but not knowing it is Rahnes son, Theresa uses one of
her screams to blast it away from the duo. Later while tracking a
demon by the name of Bloodbath, Theresa is present when the demon kills
Madrox. After it is revealed Layla can bring back the dead, minus
their soul, Theresa has no problems in asking Layla to return Madrox,
putting her at odds with Monet for a while.

After Havok and Polaris rejoin X-Factor, Theresa is present when Layla
reveals Jamie has come back from the dead but not by her doing.
After returning from one of X-Factors missions, Theresa and Polaris
share concern for Wolfsbane's wellbeing as she barely comes out of her
room unless it's for missions. The two women decide to take Rahne on a
road trip to Reverend John Maddox to help her. During the trip, Theresa
and Lorna bond and develop a friendship.

The Morrigan

Wolverine later learns of a woman matching Theresa's description has
been attacking and killing people in Ulster County, New York. Pairing up
with Havok, the two investigate the murders. Upon questioning the
family of the murder victims, Theresa notices two photos featuring the
families grandmother and granddaughter, both wearing Triquetras; a
classic Celtic symbol associated with magic. She requests to speak with
granddaughter as the grandmother was the first to die. At first
believing the little girl to be a mutant, Theresa soon realizes the girl
is not when she summons a Celtic goddess by the name of the Morrigan.
The girl attempts to send the Morrigan back but she ignores the girl and
takes Theresa; furious that she has been using the name Banshee, one of
the many names associated with the Morrigan. Taking her to a lighthouse,
the Morrigan offers Theresa a choice; apologize and worship her or die.
Theresa rejects the Morrigans offer and is thrown to her death as her
vocal cords had been weakened by the ordeal. Havok turns up just in time
to see Theresa falling to her doom when she is rescued by a demon named
Jezabel. Havok destroys the lighthouse leaving the Morrigan trapped
under rubble. Jezebel advises them the apocalypse is coming and Theresa
will have to make a tough choice sometime within the near future; to
become part of a race of new gods or perish with the rest of
humanity.

Over the next few days, Theresa considers having an alcoholic beverage
to help deal with what is going on when she is stopped by her
father. Unsure if he is real, she attempts to seek help from the
other members of X-Factor only to find Polaris has lost her mind after
the revelation she killed her parents and was manipulated by Magneto and
Mastermind into not remembering, causing her to become mentally
unbalanced throughout her life. Theresa retreats back to her room
where she continues to converse with Sean about the Morrigan and if he
is real or some kind of hallucination when Layla enters, revealing she
knows what is going on. Working with Layla, the duo attempt to summon
the Morrigan but instead Theresa is teleported to Ireland. During the
confrontation, Theresa asks if the Morrigan can heal Lorna but the
Morrigan advises her she cannot as Lorna does not believe in her. The
Morrigan reveals she is tired of being a goddess and misses her own
father; if she wishes to truly help Lorna, she will need to become the
Morrigan. Theresa agrees and then hurls a sonic lance through the
Morrigan, killing her. In that moment, Lorna is completely healed of her
insanity. Theresa teleports back to headquarters, appearing before
Madrox as the Morrigan and telling him goodbye. Theresa lets him know
she never stopped loving him and if he needs her, all he has to do is
pray before departing.

After Madrox is transformed into a demon, he takes her up on this offer
so she rescues him from men in suits with weaponry and transforms him
back into human form. She then asks the now-married Madrox and Layla if
they want to reform the team but, they decline saying that (since Layla
is pregnant) they have a farm to start up and a baby on the way.


Powers and abilities

Siryn is a mutant who possesses sonic powers similar to those of her
father, Banshee, although she is able to use her powers in ways that
Banshee apparently cannot. Like her father, she has the ability to emit
high-decibel "sonic screams" to create various sonic effects with her
vocal cords. She can also vary the pitch to deflect projectiles, and she
even used it to deflect lasers once. She possesses an enhanced sense of
hearing and can use her voice for echolocation to detect objects. While
screaming, Siryn is able to fly at the speed of sound. Siryn has
especially potent sonic attacks. She can shatter objects; project
concussive blasts of sonic force (a "sonic lance"); or cause immediate
pain, nausea/vomiting, and unconsciousness. She has shown a degree of
resistance to what would be harmful and painful sounds and vibrations to
normal humans or mutants without sonic-based powers. She also
possesses psionic powers to create a force field that protects her
against her own sonic vibrations to assist her ability to fly, and to
help direct her sonic powers.

She is vulnerable to losing the ability to use her power effectively by
overstraining and overusing her sonic screams or injury to her throat
and vocal cords. She also lacks fine control of her abilities when
in extreme distress: screaming in pain during her pregnancy, she
unwillingly shattered every window in the complex, causing the medical
staff to writhe in agony.

Unlike her father, Siryn is able to influence and control other human
beings with her sonics, as well as cause them to enter a hypnotic state.
Siryn can also cause the intended person to fall in love with her
without regard to gender or sexual orientation and carry out her wishes
and commands, like mythical Sirens. Siryn once utilized this ability
on Spider-Man, forcing him to divulge the truth about the Decimation of
the mutants.

In addition, she can also prevent others from hearing external sounds by
a certain vocal pitch so that she can secretly deliver messages to
them.

Since becoming the Morrigan, Theresa has gained numerous undefined
mystical abilities. What is known is that she has the ability to
teleport by her own free will or to people who summon her using the
correct ritual; heal her followers and people with a personal bond to
her such as Polaris and some form of immortality or longevity as the
previous Morrigan mentioned she was over two millennia old. She is
also able to revert Jamie Maddrox back to his human form and absorb
laser blasts from a gun that can destroy Layla Miller's force field.


Other versions

-   Theresa appears in the What If?_ story "What If the X-Men Died on
    their First Mission?". Following the death of the X-Men on Krakoa,
    the former X-Man Beast hastily assembles a mutant team to combat
    Count Nefaria and his Ani-Men. At this point, Theresa was still
    under the guardianship of her uncle, Black Tom, and unaware of her
    father's existence and death, but after learning the facts from
    Beast, she named herself Banshee in her father's honor. After
    foiling Nefaria (although he ultimately escapes) and settling her
    affairs with her uncle, she joins the newly formed X-Men team.
-   Theresa appears in the series X-Man during the 1995 - 1996 "Age of
    Apocalypse" storyline, in which she is known as SONIQUE. She is a
    companion to Nate Grey, and fights alongside him and Sauron against
    Mr. Sinister. After being brainwashed by Jean Grey, she was
    temporarily a member of the Sinister Six, which aided Sinister in
    attacking the X-Men, before she was freed from Grey's influence by
    Psylocke.
-   A child version of Theresa appears in the Ultimate universe. She is
    seen as one of William Stryker, Jr.'s hostages, and is almost
    executed before being rescued by Kitty Pryde and her new X-Men.


In other media

Film

In the film X2: X-Men United, Siryn was played by Shauna Kain in a
small cameo role. During William Stryker's attack on the mansion, her
scream both alerts the rest of the school that they are under attack and
incapacitates everyone in range. She was knocked out, but was rescued by
Colossus. Her name (along with her father's) also appears on a list of
names Mystique scrolls through on Stryker's computer while looking for
Magneto's file. In Chris Claremont's novelization for the film, Siryn
and a young Jamie Madrox are involved in a budding teen romance. In the
film, Siryn shares a room with Shadowcat, which is explained in the
novelization as a practical result of Shadowcat's phasing ability
granting her partial protection from Siryn's sonic screams. Kain
reprised the role in X-Men: The Last Stand.

