SKIN is a fictional mutant in the  Universe of comics. The
character first appeared in Uncanny X-Men #317. (1994)


Publication history


Fictional character biography

ANGELO ESPINOSA was a former gang member from the east Los Angeles area
who faked his own death to leave that part of his life behind. Skin was
one of four young mutants (including M, Husk, and Blink) abducted by the
Phalanx, a techno-organic alien race. The reason behind the abductions
was so that the Phalanx could uncover the secret behind their inability
to assimilate mutants into their collective. Through their combined
efforts and those of Banshee, Emma Frost, Sabretooth, Synch, and
Jubilee, the four young mutants managed to escape their confines;
although, Blink sacrificed herself by using her powers to destroy the
Phalanx that had captured them.

Afterwards, Skin accepted an invitation to enroll in the Massachusetts
Academy, a school for mutants owned by Emma Frost. As a member of
Generation X, Skin was joined by Synch, Jubilee, Husk, and M (and later
by Chamber, Penance, and Mondo). During his stay at the Massachusetts
Academy, Skin became close friends with Chamber because neither could
pass for normal humans in public, and he always found time to playfully
flirt with Husk, Jubilee (whom he nicknamed Jubecita), and M. Skin was
also hunted by a mutant-killing vigilante known as the X-Cutioner who
believed Skin responsible for the death of Angelo Espinosa. The
X-Cutioner did not know that Skin, in fact, was Angelo Espinosa. Skin
and Chamber succeeded in defeating the vigilante, but kept the secret.

During Operation: Zero Tolerance, Skin and his teammates found
themselves transported to his hometown by Glorian. While searching
for Skin's cousin Gil, they were captured by Skin's ex-girlfriend Tores,
a gang leader who wanted to kill him for making her believe he was dead.
Before she got the chance, Prime Sentinels attacked both Generation X
and her gang, forcing them into a reluctant temporary truce. Skin and
Tores acted as bait to lead the Sentinels into an ambush, and Gil
completed the trap by starting a huge explosion, allowing Generation X
to escape.

After the Academy closed due to the machinations of Adrienne Frost, Skin
returned to Los Angeles with Jubilee in tow. Some time later, Skin and
Jubilee, along with Magma, Bedlam, and a handful of other unknown
mutants were found crucified on the lawn of the X-Mansion. This action
was done by the Church of Humanity, a militant, religious anti-mutant
organization. Archangel used his blood's healing properties to revive
Jubilee and Magma but Bedlam and Skin didn't survive.

Jubilee, Husk, and Archangel went to visit Skin's grave after Jubilee
had recovered only to find that the owner of the cemetery was about to
dig Angelo up and remove him because of his status as a mutant. The
girls argued with the foreman, but he insisted that it was against the
religious convictions of the cemetery to bury mutants. He offered to
cremate Angelo's remains and give them to the girls, which he ultimately
did.

Skin was later resurrected by means of the Transmode Virus to serve as
part of Selene's army of deceased mutants. Under the control of Selene
and Eli Bard, he takes part in the assault on the mutant nation of
Utopia.


Powers and abilities

Skin possessed approximately six feet of extra skin. He was capable
of stretching, deforming, wrapping, expanding, and compressing this
extra amount of epidermis. When Skin is performing any of these stunts,
it is only the epidermis that was manipulated; Skin's skeletal structure
was the same as any normal, average person of his age and height. Skin's
skin had a greyish tone and, because of the extra amount, gave him the
appearance of a melted candle. At one point, along with compressing his
skin tighter against his body, Skin was learning to manipulate the
pigment melanin in his epidermis in order to appear normal. However,
performing these two stunts together caused him to have migraines and he
soon gave up on the idea of being normal.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

In the alternate timeline of the Age of Apocalypse, Skin was featured in
Generation Next as one of the protégés tapped by Colossus and
Shadowcat to rescue Illyana Rasputin from enslavement at the Sugar Man's
Core. Due to their more militant training, Skin was depicted as using
his powers in a much more aggressive fashion, including impaling
opponents with skin protrusions. Colossus abandoned the team to ensure
Illyana's rescue, and as a result, only he, Shadowcat, and Illyana
managed to escape from the Core. Skin and the rest of his teammates were
overwhelmed and killed by the Core's guards.

Ultimate 

In the Ultimate  universe, Skin was mentioned to receiving a
beating nearly to death from humans by Sunspot.


In other media

-   Skin appeared in the made-for-TV Generation X film portrayed by
    Augustin Rodriguez. In the film, his powers were closer to true
    elasticity, similar to Mister Fantastic. However, it caused him pain
    to use this power.
-   In the film X2, his name appears on a list of names Mystique
    scrolls through on Stryker's computer while looking for
    Magneto's file.

