The SKRULLIAN SKYMASTER is a fictional comic book superhero appearing in
books published by , usually those featuring the Squadron
Supreme, a superhero team of which Skymaster is a member. The character
is the Squadron's counterpart of the Martian Manhunter, a member of 
Comics' superhero team, the Justice League of America.


Publication history

The Skrull first appeared in Squadron Supreme #1 (August 1985) in a
flashback, and was created by Mark Gruenwald.

The character subsequently appears in Squadron Supreme: New World
Order #1 (September 1998), and Exiles #77–78 (April–May 2006).

The Skrull appeared as part of the "Squadron Supreme" entry in the
Official Handbook of the  Universe Deluxe Edition #12.


Fictional character biography

In an alternate reality to that in which most  stories take
place, the Skrull Empire has been at war with the Kree Empire. In an
attempt to end the bloodshed the Skrull Empire created a means to imbue
their soldiers with extraordinary powers to vanquish the Kree. Skymax
was the first and the only soldier experimented on because the coming of
the World Devourer that destroyed the Skrull homeworld. Skymax was in
the vicinity of Earth when his starship malfunctioned and was rescued by
American astronaut Joe Ledger (see Doctor Spectrum). Grateful for his
rescue, Skymax gave Ledger a Power Prism which Ledger used to become the
costumed adventurer Doctor Spectrum, while Skymax became the costumed
adventurer known as the Skrull. Skymax and Ledger both became founding
members of the Squadron Supreme and Skymax remained with the team until
member Tom Thumb repaired his ship allowing him to return to space.
Skymax realized that the damage to his ship was beyond repair despite
Tom Thumb's efforts and he chose to remain on Earth in secret, searching
for any possibility of other Skrull survivors. Not finding any Skymax
concluded that he was indeed the last of his race and he stayed on
Earth.

After the Squadron returned from their adventures in Earth-616, the
sorcerer Mysterium sent the surviving members to retrieve others to help
in the rebellion against the Global Directorate. Doctor Spectrum was
sent after "the Watcher" and discovered Skymax. Renaming himself the
Skrullian Skymaster, and revealing his true origin to Doctor Spectrum,
Skymax rejoined the Squadron Supreme and settled with them on Utopia
Isle.


Powers and abilities

Skymax possesses superhuman abilities similar to the Super-Skrull from
Earth-616 and also possesses the Skrull's innate racial ability to
shape-shift. In Earth-712's universe the Skrull Empire was destroyed, so
it's possible that Skymax' powers were not amplified in the same manner
as the powers of the Super-Skrull. He is also an excellent hand-to-hand
fighter, an accomplished pilot and has knowledge of advanced Skrull
technology. Skymax has also exhibited telepathy.

