SLIPSTREAM (DAVIS CAMERON) is a fictional character in 
universe. He is a superhero associated with the X-Men. Created by writer
Chris Claremont and artist Salvador Larroca, he first appeared in
X-Treme X-Men #6 (December 2001).

He is a mutant, able to generate a "warp wave" for the purpose of
teleportation. He and his sister Lifeguard were briefly members of the
squad of X-Men featured in the series X-Treme X-Men._


Fictional character biography

He and his sister Heather lived perfectly normal lives at Surfers
Paradise in Australia. They did not know that their actual father was an
underworld crime lord known as Viceroy, and upon his death they were
attacked. When Heather's life was endangered, Davis was informed by Sage
that although he was never meant to be a mutant (his latent mutant gene
was supposed to be passed down to his children) his mutant power might
be helpful to her. He agreed to let her activate it, gaining a
teleportational ability in the form of the "warp wave". Together with
Storm and Thunderbird III, he and his sister manage to defeat their
attackers. Following these events, both siblings join Storm's team of
X-Men. Davis had a brief romance with Storm.

Later, when infiltrating the ship of the intergalactic warlord, Khan,
Heather develops a more avian look, leading to speculation that the two
have Shi'ar heritage. Ultimately, Davis is unable to see past his
sister's alien appearance and leaves the X-Men.

Slipstream is confirmed to be among the mutants who lost their powers as
a result of M-Day.


Powers and abilities

Slipstream can teleport via a funnel of trans-spatial energy also called
a Warp Wave, to any place on earth. Warp Waves use superstrings to
connect any two locations on Earth. He is not only able to teleport
himself but also can take other people through the Warp Wave, but
requires increased concentration to maintain the wave when traveling
with others. Sensitivity to displacement energy signatures enable him to
track other teleportation effects back to their origin from residual
energies and after detecting this, he could use the warp wave to travel
to their location. He usually navigates with the use of a shortened
metal surfboard.


Other versions

X-Men: The End

In X-Men: The End, a title presenting one possible future of the X-Men,
Slipstream works freely for the slavers. It is eventually revealed that
he is seemingly controlled by Cassandra Nova. His powers have also
further developed to the point that he can now transverse the warp-wave
across inter-galactic distances.

