SMASHER is the name of multiple different fictional characters in 
Comics.


Publication history

Smasher first appeared in X-Men #107 (October 1977-February 1978), and
was created by Chris Claremont and Dave Cockrum.

The character subsequently appears in X-Men #137 (September 1980),
Classic X-Men #43 (January 1990), X-Men: Spotlight on Starjammers #2
(June 1990), Uncanny X-Men #275 (April 1991), Quasar #32 (March
1992), Thor #446 (April 1992), Avengers West Coast #82 (May 1992),
Starblast #2 (February 1994), Quasar #55 (February 1994),
Starjammers #4 (January 1996), Untold Legend of Captain  #1-3
(April–June 1997), Inhumans Vol. 4 #4 (September 2000), New X-Men
#117 (October 2001), #122 (April 2002), #124-126 (May–July 2002),
JLA/Avengers #1 (September 2003), X-Force #5-6 (February–March
2005), and Uncanny X-Men #477 (October 2006), and #480 (January 2007).

Smasher appeared as part of the "Imperial Guard" entry in the Official
Handbook of the  Universe Deluxe Edition #6.

A new, female Smasher appears as a member of the Avengers in the 
NOW! relaunch.

Yet more Smashers, operating directly under Imperial control, appear in
the 'Infinity' crossover.


Fictional character biography

The title of Smasher has been used by three different humanoid aliens
who served in the Shi'ar Imperial Guard.

Vril Rokk

The first Smasher was Vril Rokk, who had a long, distinguished service
with the Guard. He was also romantically linked with fellow Guardsman
Plutonia.

In Untold Tales of Captain  — which takes place before his first
encounter with the X-Men — Smasher, the Guard,  and the Kree face
all meet. A small division of the Guard, Deathbolt, Smasher, Fang and
Oracle had been selected to guard the personage of Deathbird, the
current ruler of the Shi'ar empire. They allied, then fought with the
Kree after the latter came to their assistance against a murderous
attack from the Skrulls. They later are involved with a confrontation
against the Brood.

When Cassandra Nova was decimating the Shi'ar empire, Smasher was one of
the few entities that managed to personally protect the empress
Lilandra. Under protest, Smasher is ordered to travel to Earth to warn
the X-Men about the threat Nova posed. He crash lands in a field full of
cows. He does not make it to the mansion until well after the Imperial
Guard, brainwashed by Nova, were attempting to kill the X-Men. His
presence manages to convince the Guard to fight against Nova, although
he and the others were swiftly defeated by her.

Smasher is later killed by Vulcan, a powerful mutant who attempts to
conquer the Shi'ar empire.

Salac Tuur

Vril Rokk is soon replaced with another Smasher, Salac Tuur. The new
Smasher was among the Imperial Guardsmen who attacked the Kree homeworld
during the wedding of Crystal and Ronan the Accuser. During the battle,
Smasher was slain by the Inhuman Karnak.

Third Smasher

The uniform and title of Smasher has since been passed onto an
unidentified member of the original's race. However, the newest
version of Smasher was killed by Gladiator during a raid performed by
Starjammers and Guardians of the Galaxy. The Strontian praetor killed
Smasher as a sign of defecting to Lilandra.

Izzy Kane

A new Smasher appears in the  NOW!_ relaunch as part of Captain
America's new Avengers line-up. She joins the Avengers to help fight
Ex Nihilo on Mars. She is revealed to be Isabel "Izzy" Kane, a
college student and astronomer from Iowa. After finding a pair of
high-tech goggles that had been left behind in a cornfield by Vril Rokk
when he crashed to the Earth to warn the X-Men about Cassandra Nova,
Izzy becomes the new Smasher and Earth's first member of the Imperial
Guard. Izzy is introduced to Captain America by her grandfather Dan
Kane, an acquaintance from World War II.

Originally, Smasher's name was given as "Isabel Dare" but, the collected
edition which featured her first appearance displayed her surname as
"Kane". According to editor Tom Brevoort, this change was made on
purpose, and even stated that "Dare was a mistake in the first place,"
as the character was intended to be Captain Terror's granddaughter from
the very first time she appeared.

As part of the Avengers, Izzy meets the Guardians of the Galaxy when
their ship is ambushed and crashes into a mall's parking lot.

When the source of mysterious seismic events was revealed to be A.I.M.
Island, Smasher went to investigate along with Cannonball and Sunspot.
When they arrived to the location, they were captured by A.I.M.
Troopers. Smasher was chosen by Andrew Forson and Jude the Entropic
Man to become his Messenger for the secret of the universe, that
"Everything dies." Smasher is made to do so by Andrew Forson. She is
seen eight months in the future, having started a family with teammate
Sam Guthrie. She later rejoins with an Avengers team headed by
Roberto DaCosta and Thor. Their goal is to find the threat causing the
slow death of the multiverse and to kill it. This brings Smasher in
direct opposition with Captain America's group.


Powers and abilities

Like his predecessors, Smasher could naturally absorb cosmic radiation
from his environment in order to increase his strength to superhuman
levels.

Smasher wore special goggles called "exospex" that enabled him to
"download" additional superhuman powers. Via the exospex, he could
obtain "penta-vision" (a form of X-ray vision), superhuman durability,
even greater physical strength, and the ability to travel into
hyperspace ("4-space"). Smasher was only capable of downloading one
superpower at a time.

Smasher wore small anti-gravity "flight patches" that enabled him to
fly. Flight patches are standard issue for Imperial Guardsmen who lack
the power of flight.


Inspiration

Several of the members of the Imperial Guard are at least partly based
on members of the ' team Legion of Super-Heroes. Dave Cockrum
(co-creator of the Guard) also had a long run as artist on the Legion.
Smasher is based on LSH member Ultra Boy.


Other versions

X-Men: The End

In the alternate future of X-Men: The End Smasher is a veteran
Guardian on duty when the plans of the series main villain is revealed.
He attacks with a small group of other Guardians. They are all slain,
Smasher's neck is snapped.

Star Trek/X-Men

Smasher also appears in Star Trek/X-Men #1 (December 1996). He, and
several other members of the Imperial Guard assist Deathbird in a
mission.


In other media

Television

-   The first Smasher appears in the X-Men episodes "The Dark Phoenix"
    and "Fate of the Phoenix." He and the Imperial Guard had to fight
    the X-Men to determine the fate of Jean Grey after what the Phoenix
    Force did to some of the galaxies.

