SONGBIRD (MELISSA GOLD), formerly known as SCREAMING MIMI, is a
fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by
. She possesses supersonic sound abilities that can cause a
variety of effects.


Publication history

The character first appeared as Screaming Mimi in  Two-in-One
#54 (August, 1979), and was created by Mark Gruenwald, Ralph Macchio,
and John Byrne.

She made numerous appearances as a supervillain before taking on a new
role as a superhero in the Thunderbolts series.

After some time away from the team, she returned as a regular character
in Thunderbolts beginning with issue #144, and appeared as a
supporting character when the title transitioned into Dark Avengers
beginning with issue #175.

In June 2015, Songbird was announced as a team member in the relaunched
New Avengers, part of the "All-New, All-Different " branding.


Fictional character biography

Melissa Gold was a troubled runaway from an alcoholic father and
incarcerated mother. In order to survive on the streets, Melissa
developed a hard edge to her personality, referring to herself as
"Mimi". She was eventually imprisoned, where she met Pounakes, a
female wrestler who invited her to join the Grapplers under the name
Screaming Mimi, alongside Titania and Letha. The Grapplers became
renowned for their colorful personalities and ringside antics, but the
wrestling federation denied them the opportunity to make the amount of
money their male counterparts made. Instead, the group agreed to earn
supplementary income by performing a covert operation for the Roxxon Oil
Company. Roxxon gave the Grapplers special paraphernalia to assist them
in their mission; Mimi received an apparatus that converted her voice to
high-frequency sonics for various effects. The Grapplers tested these
powers by fighting Thundra in a wrestling ring. On their mission,
Thundra led them into Project Pegasus to smuggle in the Nth Projector
for Roxxon. The mission failed when they were defeated by the heroes
Quasar and Giant-Man. The Grapplers were tried and jailed for their
misdeeds. Alongside the Grapplers, she victimized Dazzler while she was
in Ryker's Island prison with them. When the Grapplers were finally
paroled, they discovered that the women's wrestling movement had lost
its momentum without them, so they continued to perform crimes to
support themselves and working as professional criminals. Alongside the
Grapplers, Mimi attempted to attack the Thing while he was in the
hospital, and battled Captain America. Later, the Grapplers set their
sights on a women's division of the superpowered Unlimited Class
Wrestling Federation. Their manager, Auntie Freeze, arranged for the
women to augment their natural abilities with artificial powers created
by the agency Power Broker, Inc. While the other Grapplers received
superhuman strength, Mimi instead had her vocal enhancements
internalized as a throat implant; it was once believed that Mimi had
also gained superhuman strength, but it was established after the fact
in the Thunderbolts series that this was not the case. The all-new
Grapplers made a legitimate professional comeback that proved
short-lived. When Titania was murdered by the vigilante Scourge, Mimi
was among the female wrestlers of the Unlimited Class Wrestling
Federation who participated in a mass attack upon the Thing, blaming him
for Titania's death. After Letha was later also killed by Scourge,
the Grapplers broke up.

Mimi was later contacted by the criminal Baron Helmut Zemo to join his
version of the Masters of Evil. Her first assignment was to help bust
the female Yellowjacket out of prison, but Mimi was captured in the
subsequent battle with the Wasp, Black Knight, and Paladin. She was
bound and gagged and arrested. Later, she formed a romantic and
criminal partnership with the similarly-empowered Angar the Screamer, at
one point battling the Avengers Hawkeye and Mockingbird. The pair
impersonated Hawkeye and Mockingbird, but battled them and were
defeated. Mimi was also seen among the various female superhumans
aboard Superia's cruiseship, where she battled Captain America and
Paladin. Angar was eventually mortally wounded by a gunshot during a
robbery attempt that went sour, and died in Mimi's arms after they
escaped. Mad with grief, Mimi screamed, burning out her power.
Immediately afterward, she was contacted by Baron Zemo once more, and
she accepted his offer to join a formative Masters of Evil. Zemo allowed
Mimi to be nursed back to health, and his accomplice, the Fixer, gave
her new powers via a voice-augmenting harness and high-tech implants in
her neck based on technology from the villain Klaw. With her newly
transformed powers, she resumed the use of her given name Melissa, and
adopted the identity of Songbird as a member of the Thunderbolts, a new
Masters of Evil group posing as superheroes to win the world's trust
while secretly plotting world conquest under Zemo's direction. However,
Melissa and most of the other Thunderbolts grew to like their heroic
roles. In particular, Melissa began to truly grow into her own and even
began a romance with her teammate Abner Jenkins, alias MACH-1, formerly
the Beetle. Ultimately, the Thunderbolts turned against Zemo, foiling
his attempt at world domination and rescuing the Avengers in the
process. Melissa continued to serve with the team, who operated as a
team of outlaw superheroes.

Following the battle with Zemo, Songbird began gradually slipping back
into her hard-edged Mimi-type persona, and was verbally abusive to
Jenkins on several occasions and angrily rebuked him whenever he offered
her any type of assistance, in stark contrast to her previous emotional
dependence on him. When Jenkins' love and concern for her remained
unaffected despite her treatment of him, Songbird finally explained to
him that after repeatedly losing the things and people she most cared
about, including Angar and the public adulation she had enjoyed before
the Thunderbolts were exposed as villains, she had developed a fear of
abandonment and felt that the only way she could cope would be to not
care about anything or anybody that might abandon her, including
Jenkins. Jenkins assured her that he would never abandon her, and the
two became close once again.

When veteran Avengers member Hawkeye joined the Thunderbolts as their
new leader to help them regain the public's trust, Hawkeye insisted that
MACH-1, as the team's only convicted murderer, would have to serve his
prison sentence for the good of the group's image. Jenkins reluctantly
agreed, separating him from Melissa. The timing of Hawkeye's demand was
unfortunate, as it happened shortly after Melissa had ceased pushing Abe
away, and after he had given his word that he would never leave her.
When MACH-1 returned months later through a bargain struck with the
Commission on Superhuman Activities (CSA), adopting a new identity as
MACH-2, he underwent appearance-altering surgery to conceal his true
identity. He was unexpectedly turned into a man with African-American
features, and Melissa was initially disturbed by the change. However,
she has since become accustomed to it, and their relationship survived.
When the Thunderbolts uncovered and thwarted a CSA-connected conspiracy
to exterminate all superhumans, Hawkeye blackmailed the CSA into giving
the Thunderbolts full pardons in exchange for the group's silence;
however, CSA agent Henry Peter Gyrich insisted that he would not go
along with the deal unless Hawkeye went to prison for his technically
illegal vigilante activities as a member of the Thunderbolts. Hawkeye
agreed, despite the protests of his teammates, and surrendered to
federal custody. Most of the rest of the Thunderbolts, including MACH-2
and Melissa, were pardoned and released. However, as part of the terms
of their deal, they were forbidden from public use of superhuman powers
or costumed identities. Melissa turned her equipment over to the
authorities and the two started new civilian lives in the town of Burton
Canyon, Colorado as Abe Jenkins and Melissa Gold.

Their quiet lives were shattered when the super-criminal Graviton
launched his latest attempt at world conquest in Burton Canyon,
imprisoning the world's superheroes and literally reshaping the planet
in his own image. Despite their reluctance to risk their newfound
freedom, MACH-2 and Melissa agreed to join Citizen V (secretly Baron
Helmut Zemo controlling Citizen V's body) in attacking Graviton as part
of a new team of Thunderbolts. Melissa was given a new power-harness
provided by the Citizen V's financiers, the V-Battalion. Graviton was
defeated and the world was saved, but MACH-3 and the other Thunderbolts
disappeared in an implosion created by the dying Graviton's power, with
the exception of Songbird, who appeared left behind as the sole
survivor. In reality, MACH-3 and the other vanished Thunderbolts
survived but were stranded on an alternate Earth. Melissa had little
time to mourn, as immediately afterward, she was attacked by Scream, a
rogue creation of the CSA who turned out to be Angar resurrected as an
entity of pure sound. She helped the intelligence agency S.H.I.E.L.D.
destroy Scream, and she also destroyed her sound-shaping harness,
apparently intending to retire her Songbird identity again.

However, she was outfitted with new sound technology by S.H.I.E.L.D.,
who recruited her to help track down Hawkeye, who was officially an
escaped fugitive but was unofficially pursuing a secret mission on
behalf of SHIELD commander Dum Dum Dugan. After doing some undercover
detective work in her old criminal persona as Mimi, Songbird was
reunited with Hawkeye, joining forces with him and a captive Plantman to
seek out the mysterious legacy of Justin Hammer on behalf of SHIELD.
They discovered that Hammer's legacy was a biological toxin that had
been ingested by every single villain who had ever worked for him and
that one of the villains, Plantman, was the carrier. Hawkeye, Songbird,
and Plantman began a new search for the trigger that would release
Plantman's toxin. The search ended with Hammer's daughter who turned out
to be the Crimson Cowl, leader of the Masters of Evil. Hawkeye convinced
several members of the Masters of Evil to side with him and Songbird
against Crimson Cowl and their former allies. As a new team of
Thunderbolts, the group ultimately defeated the Crimson Cowl and her
Masters of Evil, and Plantman (now Blackheath) managed to release an
antidote for the toxin into the atmosphere.

Songbird was often acting second-in-command to Hawkeye in keeping his
Thunderbolts under control. They next helped the true Citizen V and the
V-Battalion, whose ship was powered by an engine of alien technology
that began distorting and threatened to suck the Earth into the null
space of a white hole. The Thunderbolts were asked to move a great
quantity of mass to plug the hole. In so doing, the Thunderbolts
encountered Zemo's Thunderbolts, who emerged from the void after
severing the alien ship's presence from Counter-Earth. The two teams
combined forces to plug the void and shunt the alien ship from Earth,
similar to the manner in which Zemo's team stopped the threat on
Counter-Earth. Songbird's reunion with Jenkins was short-lived. After
much discussion, MACH-3 once more remanded himself to police custody to
serve the remainder of his sentence. Most of the other costumed heroes
and villains chose to part company as well, and Songbird agreed to stay
with the Thunderbolts under Zemo's leadership, despite his claim that
their mission was to attempt to rule the world in order to save it.

For the last six months, while keeping an eye on Baron Zemo with Atlas
and Vantage's help. Melissa fed information to Abe Jenkins while he was
in prison. Following the Liberator project, in the course of which
Moonstone was brain-damaged and Zemo was badly scarred, the Thunderbolts
broke up again. The Avengers offered Songbird a reserve membership post,
but she declined, feeling that she could not be on a team that she
didn't trust and that didn't trust her.

Eventually, she rejoined her lover, Abe Jenkins in reforming the
Thunderbolts. Unfortunately, in the aftermath of stopping Baron
Strucker, Melissa was displeased with Abe over his dealing with HYDRA
and decided to quit the team. Melissa returned to school while trying to
figure out the truth behind Atlas and Genis-Vell which caught the
attention of Zebediah Killgrave a.k.a. the Purple Man. Ambushed by
Killgrave at her dormitory, Melissa was rescued by the Swordsman who
told her that there was an even bigger plot to destroy the Thunderbolts
in place. Following the Purple Man's defeat, Melissa agreed to return to
the team on the condition that she was permitted to lead it.

During her tenure as team leader, she led the Thunderbolts' attack on
the Avengers and apparently entered a romantic relationship with the
returned Baron Zemo. This was revealed to be a ruse, in order for her to
get revenge on Zemo for killing Genis.

During the superhero Civil War, the Thunderbolts were approached by
the government to catch supervillains and rehabilitate them. The
Thunderbolts becomes a team of villains under government watch assigned
to hunt down and incarcerate unregistered heroes. Norman Osborn
became the director of the Thunderbolts and demoted Melissa because she
was too moral, giving her leadership position to the recently recovered
Moonstone. Melissa is clearly uncomfortable with the situation, and is
only still on the team for fear of imprisonment. However, when the team
yet again makes a mess of a job trying to capture Steel Spider and
Moonstone is wounded, she and Radioactive Man decide to approach the
matter the old way, and decides to temporarily act as leader in
capturing the Steel Spider. Melissa has been shown to dislike most
of her teammates, as instead of villains seeking redemption, the new
team of Thunderbolts are largely fighting for personal gain. She also
misled Bullseye, leading him to be gravely injured.

Recently, Melissa was gravely injured by the Golden Age superhero Toro
when he, along with the time-displaced Invaders attacked the
Thunderbolts after witnessing them attempting to arrest Spider-Man and
in Times Square, and thinking them to be Nazis. Interestingly enough,
Toro displayed a slight attraction to Melissa, commenting that she was,
"Too cute to be a Nazi", before engaging her in combat, and defending
his remarks about her after Namor claims that his display of affection
for an enemy was disgusting.

During the Secret Invasion storyline, Songbird was attacked by a
Skrull who not only had her powers, but also had the powers of Atlas and
the rest of the original Thunderbolts. The Thunderbolts save her by
causing this Skrull to merge into a nearby building, killing him.

When Norman Osborn is given control of H.A.M.M.E.R. and decides to make
the Thunderbolts into his own hit squad during the Dark Reign
storyline, Melissa becomes a liability. Under Osborn's orders Bullseye
corners Songbird with a blade to her back, telling her to ask him to
kill her. She manages to deflect him, and escapes as Venom also
hunts her down under Moonstone's orders. Stealing the team's Zeus jet,
she crashes outside the Thunderbolts Mountain due to Venom attacking her
in mid-flight, but she manages to survive. Swordsman saves her from
Bullseye after he corners her once again, and after Swordsman fakes her
death by blowing up the Zeus, she departs. She is next seen
remarking to a couple of homeless men that Osborn is going to destroy
the country "unless somebody steps up and stops him".

When H.A.M.M.E.R. agents attack the shanty town where Songbird is
hiding, she protects the homeless people there and defeats the agents.
Osborn found out, and he sends his newest Thunderbolt, Scourge, after
her. Songbird meets with her old teammates Fixer and Abner Jenkins,
enlisting their assistance in her battles against Osborn. She then finds
out that Natasha Romanova, the original Black Widow who had been
disguised as Yelena Belova, had been assigned by Nick Fury to protect
her when the Thunderbolts attack.

After the Siege of Asgard and Osborn's subsequent downfall, Songbird has
taken a position at "the Raft", as the prison's female warden. Songbird
has joined the new Thunderbolts team, led by Luke Cage in large part to
keep a close eye over Moonstone (whom Cage has offered a chance for
freedom in exchange for her serving on the team). When Songbird objects
to Moonstone's inclusion on the team due to her history of manipulation
and deceit, Cage counters that Songbird herself used to be regarded the
same way and that she should give Moonstone the same chances she was
given by others.

Songbird was later captured by Lemuel Dorcas (who had developed an
obsession with her) and repaired her vocal cords in hopes of making
Songbird his slave. However, Songbird escaped from Lemuel Dorcas'
clutches. With the surgery restoring her persuasive powers as well,
Songbird used it to turn Lemuel Dorcas' henchmen against him.


Powers and abilities

As Screaming Mimi, Gold's enhanced vocal cords were bionically altered
and enhanced by technicians in the employ of Roxxon. As such, she had
the ability to generate a high-pitched, earsplitting, earth-shattering
supersonic scream of great volume and for a variety of effects. She was
capable of emitting a sound equivalent in decibels to the noise of a jet
engine passing 5 feet from one's ear. She has perfect pitch, the ability
to hear in her mind the correct frequency for every musical note on the
scale. Every note on the scale she screams induces a different effect
upon those who hear it. Low C causes low level anxiety and shortness of
breath, D causes high level anxiety and panic attacks, E causes
dizziness and vertigo, F causes nausea and stomach cramping, G causes
severe headaches and fatigue, A causes blindness, B causes euphoria and
eventual stupor, and high C causes the listener to visually hallucinate.
By rapid oscillation between two notes she can combine effects. In
addition, she could produce certain vocal effects in harmony with Angar
the Screamer, such as specific sustained illusions. Her nervous system
is immune to her own vocal powers. At the upper limit of her scream's
power, it could actually damage physical objects. Faced with the death
of her lover, Angar the Screamer, she screamed for 43 minutes in a fit
of hysteria, creating a large blast crater and literally liquefying
nearby plant life. This outburst nearly destroyed her vocal cords,
and depowered her briefly until she used new technology to assume the
Songbird alias. During a later encounter with the Hand, Songbird
unintentionally reactivated her incredibly strong supersonic scream
ability.

As Songbird, Melissa uses a derivation of technology created by the
criminal Ulysses Klaw that converts sound into a malleable form of
energy that has physical form and mass, termed "solid sound". She could
initially create simple 3-dimensional sound/mass constructions, though
as she has gained experience in her new supersonic sound abilities, she
has learned to create more complex forms. She shapes and animates these
by mental command and they only remain in existence for as long as she
wills them to. She can "fly" by generating solid sound "wings" attached
to her body; initially, these were created as glider-style wings,
stretching from wrists to feet, though more recently they are shown
attached to her back. Presumably, she animates the wings to flap or
somehow generates a propulsive force with her powers, since her airborne
speed and maneuverability to date extend well beyond simple gliding.

Songbird has also occasionally exhibited an ability to influence others
through sub-vocal (below the level of conscious human hearing) sonics;
this is more of a subtle "nudge" or subconscious suggestion rather than
outright mind control. This is apparently an effect generated by the
remnants of her original sonic enhancements.

As a former wrestler, she is extensively skilled in hand-to-hand combat
using wrestling techniques, and was well trained by Titania. Her
physical and natural abilities were greatly strengthened and augmented
by the Power Broker's special process, though she could not be fully
augmented to the usual superhuman power levels.


Other versions

Avengers Forever

A Songbird from an alternate future is one of the featured characters in
the limited series Avengers Forever. In this alternate timeline
Songbird has become a member of the Avengers.

 Zombies

Songbird appears alongside the Thunderbolts in the Dead Days one-shot of
the  Zombies miniseries attacking Thor and later Nova. She is
quickly destroyed by the Invisible Woman when she tries to bite Nova.


In other media

Television

-   Screaming Mimi / Songbird appears in The Super Hero Squad Show,
    voiced by Julie Morrison. In the episode "Hulk Talk Smack",
    Screaming Mimi and Klaw are seen searching for a fractal for Doctor
    Doom. After failing to recover one from the library, Screaming Mimi
    and Klaw are sent with Melter and Toad to search for a fractal at
    the local reservoir. Screaming Mimi appears in the episode "A Brat
    Walks Among Us!", where she helps the villains try to get
    the fractal. In the episode "Deadly is the Black Widow's Bite",
    Screaming Mimi is sent with MODOK and Abomination to search for the
    Infinity Fractal. When the Super Hero Squad arrives, MODOK tells
    Screaming Mimi that the Super Hero Squad insulted her voice causing
    her to use her sonic attacks on them. She alongside MODOK and
    Abomination were easily defeated by the arrival of Mystique
    (disguised as Black Widow for Doctor Doom's next plot). When it came
    to the Vault, Screaming Mimi was shown with Mystique, Abomination,
    MODOK, Klaw and Toad in a raid upon the Vault. During the episode's
    climax, Screaming Mimi is revealed to be Songbird, an undercover
    S.H.I.E.L.D. Agent, when Captain America revealed that S.H.I.E.L.D.
    planted an undercover agent in the Lethal Legion.

-   The character appears in Avengers: Ultron Revolution, voiced by
    Jennifer Hale. She first appears as her original Screaming Mimi
    identity in the episodes "Adapting to Change" and "Under Siege",
    later assuming her current Songbird identity in "Thunderbolts" and
    "Thunderbolts Revealed".

Video games

-   Songbird is a playable character in : Ultimate Alliance 2,
    voiced by Susan Spano. She is locked into the Pro-Registration
    faction during the Civil War portion of the game's PlayStation 3 and
    Xbox 360 versions. On Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, her sound-based
    wings are depicted as being more like those of a butterfly rather
    than the bird-like ones she has in the comics. A variant of her
    Screaming Mimi costume appears as her alternate costume. Songbird
    also is in the game's Wii, PSP and PS2 versions. Her first overall
    appearance (not counting her silhouette on the selection screen) is
    as a nanite-controlled boss alongside Moonstone. You unlock Songbird
    upon getting a silver medal score on her mission which has you
    saving scientists from a collapsing and guard-infested Prison 42
    only to encounter a nanite-controlled Moonstone. Her attitude also
    differs between the platforms. On the Xbox 360 and PS3, she appears
    as a more caring and less conceited person. An example of this is
    when Iron Man and Mister Fantastic tell her the nanite procedure is
    done with her teammates, she cares for how they'll feel after they
    tell them. But on the other consoles, she is more stubborn
    and mean-natured. An example on a side mission is when she tells a
    scientist she is supposed to rescue that she "isn't [his] mommy",
    but reluctantly agrees to help.

-   Songbird will appear in Lego 's Avengers as a DLC playable
    character as part of the Thunderbolts DLC.

-   Songbird will be playable in : Avengers Alliance as the
    prize for the 30th Player versus Player season.

