SOUTHPAW (Sasha Martin) is a fictional character that first appeared in
the  She-Hulk. She is Holden Holliway's granddaughter and
in the custody of She-Hulk (and if She-Hulk becomes Jennifer Walters,
then Awesome Andy).

She is incredibly powerful because of a gauntlet she wears that cannot
be removed. She has a short temper and will often act without thinking
(i.e., destroying her high school because they brought back school
uniforms, or attacking the Champion because he took a piece of fruit
from her).


Fictional character biography

Sasha first appeared in She-Hulk #5 attacking the New Warriors (who
were trying to stop her from stealing CDs) sending Nova flying into a
building and grabbing Namorita. She was later subdued by Night Thrasher
and was taken to the Big House. The Mad Thinker told her to aid them in
an escape. They shrank down and stowed away on She-Hulk's hand when the
miniature villains escaped. She aided Yellowjacket in subduing the
U-Foes after they threatened to kill Holliway. She was later taken
with She-Hulk to Skardon to aid the Magistrati in dethroning Champion
and unnwittingly gave She-Hulk the answer to defeat the Champion.


Future Southpaw

She-Hulk

In a possible future detailed in She-Hulk, Southpaw becomes a lawyer
and an active superheroine (inspired by The Gauntlet and complete with a
partner/sidekick, Kid Glove) and eventually gets recruited from fifteen
years in the future to act as She-Hulk's lawyer when the Time Variance
Authority attempts to remove her from the timeline.

Bishop

In Bishop's future someone named Southpaw worked with Hancock in the
Summers Rebellion. Whether or not this is the same Southpaw is unknown;
this future is portrayed as 70 years in the  Universe's future.


Powers and abilities

Southpaw can use the gauntlet to project energy hands that mimic what
her hand inside the gauntlet is doing. These hands are powerful enough
to restrain She-Hulk temporarily (although She-Hulk subsequently played
"This Little Piggy" with the energy hand's fingers; this forced
Southpaw's fingers open and caused Southpaw great discomfort). The
energy hand was certainly strong enough to twist Ironclad's arm. She
uses the hands as her main attack method, mainly by grabbing an
opponent. She can also perform feats of class 100 strength, but only
with her left hand. Her gauntlet's size and shape appears to alter at
random.

