SPIDER-WOMAN (MATTIE FRANKLIN) is a fictional superhero appearing in
American comic books published by . She is the third
character to be called Spider-Woman.


Publication history

The character first appeared in Spectacular Spider-Man #262 (in the
shadows), in November 1998. Her first full appearance was in The
Amazing Spider-Man #441 (1998), and her first appearance as
Spider-Woman was in The Amazing Spider-Man vol. 2 #5 (1999), the
beginning of a three-part crossover which lead directly into the launch
of her own Spider-Woman series. Like Spider-Woman volume 1,
Spider-Woman volume 3 pitted the protagonist against macabre and
grotesque villains, and featured a closing story arc in which she looks
into a mirror and sees her own face shriveled down to skin and bones. As
a running joke, Spider-Woman constantly changes costumes throughout the
series, including a four-issue run (#2–5) in which she adopts a new
costume every issue. However, sales were mediocre and the series was
cancelled with issue #18 (December 2000).

After two years' absence, Mattie Franklin returned for a six-issue story
arc in Alias #16–21, but the character spends the entire story (save a
three-page epilogue) in a semi-conscious state. The 2007–2008 limited
series Loners thus represented Mattie Franklin's first active
adventure in more than six years.


Fictional character biography

Martha "Mattie" Franklin is a troubled youth who grew up with her father
after her mother died. After overhearing a phone call between her father
and Norman Osborn about the The Gathering of Five, she takes her
father's place during the Gathering and is endowed with the powers that
Norman Osborn desired for himself.

[Mattie's first Spider-Woman costume] During one of Spider-Man's
temporary retirements, she wears a near-identical costume and fills in
for him. Mattie has long been an obsessive fan of Spider-Man, who
inspired her career as a superhero. This obsession is coupled with
repressed romantic feelings for him. She is defeated by Shadrac,
forcing Spider-Man to return to the costume and save her. After
Spider-Man's return, she assumes the identity of Spider-Woman.
Eventually Charlotte Witter, a villain also going by the name of
Spider-Woman, attacks her and steals her powers. Mattie manages not only
to reabsorb her own powers, but also to absorb the powers of all three
previous Spider-Women. Assisted by Madame Web and Jessica Drew, she
hunts down supervillains wherever she can find them.

Lonely from having only her constantly working father to live with,
Franklin moves in with J. Jonah Jameson, a close friend of her father,
and his wife Marla who happens to be her aunt. They have Franklin (a
straight A student) enrolled in a private school, where a classmate,
Cheryl, spots her using her powers and becomes her friend and biggest
fan. During this time, the powers Mattie absorbed from previous
Spider-Women begin returning to their original owners.

She is featured in the series Contest of Champions II. Having escaped
from brutal gladitorial fights other Earth superheroes are unwittingly
brainwashed into it, she flees into a mysterious jungle and is almost
slain by foe and naive friend alike. She ultimately teams up with all
original heroes and veterans Iron Man and Psylocke.

Alias

While on a first date, Mattie is slipped a date rape drug. Since by this
time she has completely lost the toxin resistance power she absorbed
from Jessica Drew, she is rendered senseless. A small time drug dealer
then exploits her to produce a drug called Mutant Growth Hormone, as
well as using her for prostitution. In order to keep her prisoner, he
regularly doses her with psychoactive drugs. Private investigator
Jessica Jones, with the help of Jessica Drew, rescues Mattie and returns
her to Jonah and Marla. Mattie goes through counseling in order to get
over her dependence on the drugs with which she was sedated.

Loners

After the events of Alias, Mattie had retired from being a superhero
and became a private investigator. However, she dons the costume once
more to track down the dealers who were selling the MGH, and follows
them to Los Angeles, where she attends Excelsior meetings and pretends
to quit using her powers. In reality, she is using the meetings to
recruit a partner to help her. She is joined by Darkhawk and Ricochet,
who keep their activities secret from the rest of the group.

The trio's involvement in the MGH ring bust is revealed when Ricochet's
later break-in at a Fujikawa lab results in Lightspeed being grievously
wounded by Hollow (formerly Penance). The group is confronted by a woman
leading armored guards and Delilah; they have come to reclaim Hollow.
The matter is settled peacefully by Mickey Musashi; Mattie is frustrated
about allowing the bad guys to leave. However, Mickey reminds her that
she is undoing the damage for which she, Darkhawk, and Ricochet are
responsible. It is revealed that another reason for her joining the
support group was that she was secretly researching the Slingers. While
over at Johnny's house she begins searching around, looking for evidence
when she is caught by Johnny whom she sleeps with in order for him not
to get suspicious. Afterwords, she privately contacts the father of
Dusk, in which she confirmed that the former Slinger named Ricochet has
no knowledge of Cassie's whereabouts. Mattie and Johnny later arrive at
Mickey's apartment, in which they learn about both Phil and Chris
fighting each other in Darkhawk armor. After defeating Phil, she learns
about Phil also making a deal with Fumiko Fujikawa (just as Mickey did)
and decides to leave the support group, no longer trusting them,
pointing out that they had forgotten about how to be heroes in trying to
overcome their heroic pasts. Mattie also admits that she regrets
sleeping with Ricochet.

The Gauntlet and Grim Hunt

While about to help Spider-Man against Lady Stilt-Man she is attacked by
Ana Tatiana Kravinoff and captured. She awakens long enough to tell
fellow prisoner Madame Web to tell Spider-Man that what happened to her
is not his fault and that she didn't cry. She is then killed by Sasha
Kravinoff as part of a ritual to revive her son Vladimir Kravinoff.
Madame Web expresses a great amount of grief before she is killed,
tearfully comforting her and saying she was a fine Spider-Woman who
saved lives.


Powers and abilities

Mattie Franklin possessed a variety of superhuman powers. After
participating in the Gathering of Five ceremony, Mattie was given the
gift of "Power." This granted her superhuman strength on par with
Spider-Man's, as well as superhuman speed, superhuman stamina,
invulnerability, superhuman agility, and superhuman reflexes. Mattie
also gained the power to fly at subsonic speeds.

After a battle with Charlotte Witter, Mattie briefly lost her powers
before regaining not only her own powers, but also those of Witter, the
two previous Spider Women Jessica Drew and Julia Carpenter, and the
powers of Madame Web. This granted her the ability to produce powerful
blasts of concentrated bio-electricity, create webbing of psionic
energy, grow four "psychic spider legs" from her back, as well as mild
telepathic and precognitive powers. Due to her inexperience, Mattie was
not able to make full use of the previous Spider Women's abilities.

After a short time, Julia and Jessica regained their powers, which left
Mattie with her original abilities and those of Charlotte Witter.


Other versions

MC2

Spider-Man pursued Norman Osborn sooner than he did in the main
continuity, and therefore, interfering The Gathering of Five ceremony.
Mattie fled with the artifacts needed, and later gained the gift of
power.

Spider-Verse

A version of Mattie from an alternate universe makes a brief cameo in
the Spider-verse storyline as part of the Spider-Army.

 Universe vs The Avengers

When a plague turned the world's population into cannibals, Mattie was
among the many superheroes who succumbed to it. She was seen battling
Black Widow, alongside her infected mentor Jessica Drew.


In other media

Video games

-   Mattie was intended to be one of Jessica Drew's alternate
    Spider-Woman skins in : Ultimate Alliance, as was Julia
    Carpenter; this is shown in an unlockable concept art screen.
    However, in the game, she was replaced by Spider-Girl.

