MILES MORALES is a fictional superhero who appears in comic books
published by , as one of the characters who goes by the
identity of Spider-Man. The character was created by writer Brian
Michael Bendis and artist Sara Pichelli, with Bendis and 
editor-in-chief Axel Alonso drawing inspiration from both U.S. President
Barack Obama and American actor Donald Glover.

Miles Morales first appeared in Ultimate Fallout #4 (August 2011),
following the death of Peter Parker. A teenager of Black Hispanic
descent, Miles is the second Spider-Man to appear in Ultimate , an
imprint with a separate continuity from the mainstream 
Universe. Although Morales featured in the Ultimate Comics:
Spider-Man comic book series, he is not the lead character in the
Ultimate Spider-Man animated TV series that debuted in April 2012 on
Disney XD, but he was later added to the main cast in 2016. After
 ended the Ultimate imprint in 2015, Miles was made a character in
the main  Universe, beginning with stories under the All-New,
All-Different  brand published that same year.

Reaction to the character varied, with some, including Spider-Man's
creator, Stan Lee, approving the creation of a positive role model for
non-white children, to displeasure at the replacement of Peter Parker,
with some decrying it as a publicity stunt motivated by political
correctness, a charge Alonso denied. Alexandra Petri of The Washington
Post called for the character to be judged on the quality of its
stories, which have garnered positive reviews.

The character possesses powers similar to those of the original
Spider-Man, which were derived from the bite of a spider genetically
engineered by Spider-Man's nemesis Norman Osborn in an attempt to
duplicate those abilities.


Publication history

The concept of a black Spider-Man was first discussed a few months
before the November 2008 election of Barack Obama as President of the
United States.  editor-in-chief Axel Alonso describes the
catalyst, "When we were planning “Ultimatum,” we realized that we were
standing at the brink of America electing its first African-American
President and we acknowledged that maybe it was time to take a good look
at one of our icons." This new Spider-Man was considered a possible
part of the 2008-09 "Ultimatum" story arc that restructured much of the
Ultimate  universe, but those early thoughts were abandoned
because the story for that character had not yet been developed.
Bendis said thoughts about the character were further reinforced by
African American actor Donald Glover's appearance wearing Spider-Man
pajamas in "Anthropology 101", the second season premiere of the
television comedy series Community. This was a reference to an
unsuccessful online campaign that attempted to secure Glover an audition
for the lead role in the 2012 film The Amazing Spider-Man. Bendis said
of Glover, "I saw him in the costume and thought, 'I would like to read
that book.' So I was glad I was writing that book."

[The first appearance of Miles Morales as Spider-Man, from Ultimate
Fallout #4 (August 2011)] When the  staff decided that the
Ultimate universe's Peter Parker would be killed in the 2011 storyline
"Death of Spider-Man", the character Miles Morales was created.
Although Morales is the first black Spider-Man, he marks the second time
a Latino character has taken the Spider-Man identity. Miguel O'Hara, who
is of half Mexican descent, was the title character in the series
Spider-Man 2099. Morales has replaced Parker as Spider-Man only in
Ultimate , a parallel universe that re-imagines the characters.

Miles Morales was created by comic book writer Brian Michael Bendis and
artist Sara Pichelli. Morales was born and raised in Brooklyn,
New York City, the 13-year-old son of an African American father and
a Puerto Rican mother. Axel Alonso has described Miles as an intelligent
nerd with an aptitude for science similar to his predecessor, Peter
Parker. The character made his debut in the fourth issue of the
Ultimate Fallout limited series, which was released on August 3, 2011.
He later starred in the relaunched Ultimate Comics: Spider-Man series,
written by Bendis and drawn by Pichelli, in September 2011.

In contrasting Miles with Peter Parker, Bendis has depicted different
conflicts and anxieties for the character. Right after acquiring his
superhuman abilities from a spider bite at the home of his uncle, Aaron,
whom Miles admires but he does not initially know is a career criminal,
Miles' father, Jefferson, explains to Miles that before Miles was born,
Jefferson and Aaron were thieves who spent time in prison, and that
while Jefferson reformed when he got older, Aaron has not. According
to Bendis, this gives Miles cause to wonder if the traits that lead to
criminal behavior are hardwired into his DNA, leading him to question
whether he is essentially a good person or not, and what his future
holds for him. These issues further haunt Miles after he becomes
disillusioned with Aaron, and Aaron dies from an accidental explosion
triggered during a battle between the two of them, saying, "You are just
like me" to Miles before dying.

In creating the visual look for Miles, Pichelli followed her usual
practice of approaching the design by giving thought to the character's
personality, including the background that influenced it, and the
distinctive traits that he would exhibit, such as the clothing he wears,
his body language and expressions. Pichelli also designed
Spider-Man's new costume, a mostly black outfit with red webbing and a
red spider logo. Pichelli had worked on four issues of Ultimate
Spider-Man before she was approached to work on the new title with
Miles Morales. Pichelli, who works with a Cintiq 12wx graphic
tablet, added more screentones to her illustrations to give what she
called "a more 'pop' feeling to the book, because I think it would fit
perfectly with the new series".

In 2012, Morales appeared in the miniseries Spider-Men, in which he
encounters the Spider-Man of the original  universe.

In June 2013, the character appeared in the climax of Age of Ultron
#10 (also written by Brian Michael Bendis). In the storyline, which
depicts major changes to the space-time continuum as a result of the
time travel on the part of the original  versions of Susan
Richards and Wolverine, Miles witnesses the coming of the mainstream
 Galactus to Earth.

Despite its initial press and critical reception, Ultimate Comics
Spider-Man was not a huge hit in the direct market. By August 2013,
sales on the title had slipped, and sales for the other two Ultimate
titles, Ultimate Comics X-Men and Ultimate Comics The Ultimates, had
dropped to numbers at which mainstream  titles are cancelled.
That November, Ultimate Comics Spider-Man ended its run with issue
#28, and the other two titles ended along with it, to make way for the
miniseries Cataclysm: Ultimate Spider-Man, one of the books in the
crossover storyline "Cataclysm", in which the heroes of the Ultimate
universe face the threat of the  616 Galactus, and Miles is
transported to the mainstream  universe.

In January 2014, it was announced that following "Cataclysm", Miles
would begin starring in a new title called Miles Morales: Ultimate
Spider-Man, as part of Ultimate  Now, an initiative with which
 will relaunch the Ultimate  line. Miles Morales will also
be a main character in the All-New Ultimates, in which he will join a
team of young heroes that will include Kitty Pryde, Bombshell, Cloak and
Dagger, and a new Black Widow. The former title is written by Bendis,
while the latter is written by Michel Fiffe and drawn by Amilcar
Pinna. both series ran for 12 issues. The twelfth and final
issue of Miles Morales: Ultimate Spider-Man concluded with a
cliffhanger that led directly into the 2015 "Secret Wars" storyline.

 ended the Ultimate  imprint with the "Secret Wars"
storyline, in which the  Universe was merged with other
alternate universes, including the Ultimate Universe.
Following "Secret Wars", Miles become a character of the mainstream
 Universe, and a member of the titular team in All-New,
All-Different Avengers. He will also headline a new series, titled
simply Spider-Man, which will debut February 3, 2016, with Bendis and
Pichelli returning as the creative team. In the storyline, the
now-16-year-old Miles will continue to patrol New York City, while Peter
Parker will expand the scope of his activities globally. Issues that
Miles will deal with will include the confrontations with Parker's
rogues gallery, the public's reaction to his ethnicity, and his love
life.


Fictional character biography

First appearance

Miles Morales first appears in Ultimate Comics: Fallout #4, which was
published in August 2011, in which he foils a murder by Kangaroo, a
short time after Peter Parker's death. He wears a Spider-Man costume
similar to Peter Parker's, but considers changing it when spectators
tell him it is in "bad taste".

Ultimate Comics: Spider-Man

The opening story arc of Ultimate Comics: Spider-Man, which premiered
in September 2011, is set prior to Ultimate Fallout #4, and details
how Miles received his superhuman abilities. After Oscorp scientist Dr.
Markus uses Parker's blood to recreate the Oz formula that created
Spider-Man, the Prowler (Aaron Davis) steals the formula, and in the
process, one of the spiders created by Markus crawls into the Prowler's
duffel bag. Days later, the Prowler's nephew, grade-schooler
Miles Morales, is bitten by the spider during a visit to Aaron's
apartment. Morales develops superhuman abilities similar to those Peter
Parker has, but does not tell his parents, Jefferson and
Rio, due to his father's distrust of superheroes, confiding
only in his best friend, Ganke Lee.

Miles, who just wants a normal life, is unhappy about having these
abilities, and initially nauseated at the idea of risking his life to
engage in superheroics, a reaction that Bendis wrote to further
contrast Miles with Parker. However, after witnessing Spider-Man's
death at the hands of the Green Goblin, the guilt-ridden Miles realizes
he could have helped. After Ganke suggests he assume the mantle of
Spider-Man, and learns from Gwen Stacy why Parker did what he did, Miles
is inspired to try his hand at costumed crimefighting. During his
first foray into costumed superheroics, he is confronted not only by
those who feel his use of the Spider-Man costume is in bad
taste, but also by Spider-Woman, a member of the government
superhuman team, the Ultimates, over his use of the Spider-Man
identity.

Spider-Woman unmasks and arrests Miles and takes him to S.H.I.E.L.D.
headquarters, where Nick Fury reveals that he knows all about Miles and
his family, including his uncle's criminal activity. After he helps
S.H.I.E.L.D. subdue the escaped supervillain Electro, S.H.I.E.L.D.
releases Miles and gives him a modified black and red version of the
Spider-Man costume, which Ganke feels makes Miles "officially" the new
Spider-Man. He also receives the blessing of the Earth-616 Peter
Parker during the 2012 Spider-Men miniseries, in which Parker briefly
visits the Ultimate  universe and meets Miles. After the
newspapers begin reporting the emergence of a new Spider-Man, Aaron
deduces that it is really Miles, and offers to train Miles and work
with him. After Aaron uses Miles in his ongoing conflict with the
Mexican crime lord Scorpion, Miles realizes he is being exploited, and
refuses to assist his uncle further, despite Aaron's threat to inform
Miles' father of his secret. This leads to an altercation between the
uncle and nephew that results in the malfunction of Aaron's weapons,
which explode, killing Aaron.

In subsequent storylines, Miles subsequently becomes acquainted with
Peter Parker's loved ones, May Parker, Gwen Stacy and Mary Jane Watson,
who know of his secret identity, and give him Parker's web shooters. He
also encounters Captain America, who reluctantly agrees to train
Miles.

In a 2013 storyline, investigative reporter Betty Brant incorrectly
concludes that Miles' father, Jefferson, is the new Spider-Man. However,
publisher J. Jonah Jameson, in light of the death of Peter Parker,
refuses to publish her theory, on the grounds that it will merely ruin a
family's life and deprive the city of another hero. When Brant tries to
publish her findings in a book, she is murdered by former Oscorp and
then-Roxxon scientist Dr. Conrad Marcus, who has become the newest host
to the Venom symbiote. In the subsequent "Venom War" storyline, Venom
learns of Brant's findings, and confronts Jefferson at his home, where
Spider-Man repels the creature. Jefferson is critically injured and
hospitalized in this battle, and Miles is confronted by former
S.H.I.E.L.D. agent turned New York Police detective Maria Hill, who has
also deduced his secret. When Venom later appears at the hospital,
Spider-Man again confronts him, during which Miles' mother, Rio, also
learns that her son is Spider-Man. By the end of the brawl, Marcus is
separated from the symbiote and killed by police gunfire, as is Rio, who
tells Miles not to reveal his secret to his father before dying.

The storyline then jumps ahead one year. Miles has a girlfriend named
Katie Bishop, and is planning on telling her about his former life as
Spider-Man. Though he has not engaged in heroics in a year, he is
pressured to return to that life, by S.H.I.E.L.D. He reluctantly
does so, after Ganke and Spider-Woman convinces him that there needs to
be a Spider-Man. Along with Spider-Woman, Bombshell and Cloak and
Dagger, Miles helps arrest Donald Roxxon, the head of the Roxxon
corporation, who reveals that he knows of Miles' identity, and that he
was the one who hired Aaron to break into Oscorp the night that the
spider who gave Miles his powers was accidentally brought to Aaron's
home. He also reveals that he was responsible for the creation of
Bombshell, Cloak and Dagger, which involved kidnapping underage people
and experimenting on them using untested genetic technology. After
Roxxon's arrest, Miles thanks Ganke for his support, and affirms in
earnest that he is Spider-Man.

"Cataclysm"

In the "Cataclysm" storyline, the mainstream  Galactus comes to
Earth to consume it for its energy. During the course of this story,
Miles comes to believe the world is coming to an end, and reveals his
double life to his father, who believes he is responsible for the death
of Aaron and Rio, and disowns him. Miles also journeys to the
mainstream  universe with Reed Richards to acquire information on
how to repel Galactus.

Miles Morales: Ultimate Spider-Man

During the course of his second solo series, Miles Morales: Ultimate
Spider-Man, Miles encounters a very much alive Peter Parker, who cannot
explain his reappearance, and who does not intend to return to his
former life. Together, the two Spider-Men defeat Norman Osborn, who is
also revealed to be alive, but who is killed during the course of the
story. Witnessing Miles courageously battles Osborn made Peter
acknowledges Miles a worthy successor, and decides to retire from
superheroics for a life with his family and Mary Jane after reuniting
with them.

Miles' father also reappears, and relates to his son that as a young
man, he and Aaron went to work for a criminal named Turk after Jefferson
was recruited by S.H.I.E.L.D. as a spy in order to infiltrate the
organization of the then-up-and-coming international criminal Wilson
Fisk. Jefferson did this for a time, but after the Kingpin was arrested
and convicted for his crimes, and Jefferson offered a chance to be a
full-fledged S.H.I.E.L.D. agent, he refused, not wanting any part of his
brother's world. He met Rio a week later and fell in love with her.
Jefferson fled after learning that Miles was Spider-Man because it
brought back unresolved from that earlier time in his life, and tells
Miles that he does not blame Miles for his mother's death, and regrets
abandoning him.

When Miles reveals his secret identity to his girlfriend, Katie
Bishop, she and her parents are revealed to be sleeper agents for
the terrorist group Hydra, who then kidnap Miles, his father and
Ganke, as part of a plan involving Dr. Doom. Miles and the other
prisoners are freed, however, in part with help from Miles' dorm mate,
Judge, Maria Hill, and other superhuman colleagues.

"Secret Wars"

During the events of the 2015 "Secret Wars" storyline, both the Ultimate
 universe and the mainstream Earth-616 universe are destroyed.
Miles manages to survive the destruction by infiltrating an escape ship
designed by the Cabal. After eight years in stasis, Miles awakens on
the planet Battleworld, a new planet created from the remains of the
various alternate Earths that had been destroyed. Miles is reunited with
Earth-616's Peter Parker and the other surviving 616 heroes, who battle
against Doctor Doom, who has used newly acquired powers appointed
himself a God Emperor over the planet. At the conclusion of the
storyline, the Ultimate Universe is wiped out of existence, but the
Molecule Man, in gratitude for Miles' earlier compassion to him,
arranges for Earth-616 to be restored, with Miles and his family among
its inhabitants, including his mother, who has been indicated to have
restored to life in the process, as well as Ganke Lee. Both Miles
and Peter share the mantle of Spider-Man in the new universe, though
the now-16-year-old Miles will patrol New York City, while Peter Parker
acts globally.

All-New, All-Different Avengers

As part of his new life on Earth-616, Miles is now a member of the
latest team of Avengers. When Kang the Conqueror's splintered half
Mister Griffin attempts to attack the Avengers with a brainwashed
Equinox- aided by Equinox's future selves- and a reprogrammed
Vision, Miles plays an important role in defeating Equinox by
pretending to have fallen under Kang's influence, allowing him to
identify the earliest version of Equinox present as the only one
surprised at his conversion and then knock him out, eliminating all the
future Equinoxes as well.


Powers and abilities

Bitten by a slightly different genetically engineered spider (treated by
Norman Osborn's OZ compound) than the one that granted Peter Parker's
powers, Miles Morales possesses abilities similar to the original
Spider-Man's, including enhanced strength and agility, the ability to
adhere to walls and ceilings with his hands and feet, and a "spider
sense" that warns him of danger with a buzzing sensation in his
head. Though his strength and agility are similar to those of
the original Spider-Man, his spider-sense is not as strong, as it only
warns him of immediate danger. He also has two abilities that the
original Spider-Man did not have: the ability to camouflage himself,
including his clothing, to match his surroundings, and an
electrical "venom strike" that can paralyze almost anyone with just a
touch, including the electrically powered Electro. The venom strike
can be conducted through Miles' gloves. It can be used against an
opponent at a distance by conducting it through a material in which both
Miles and his opponent are in contact, such as the webbing of the
Earth-616's Spider-Man. The venom strike is powerful enough to
render unconscious a person as large as Hank Pym's Giant Man. It was
powerful enough to drive away Venom during Miles' first encounter with
the creature, but by their second encounter, Venom had developed
such a tolerance to the strike that Miles had to be completely enveloped
by the symbiote before the venom strike could separate the symbiote from
its host. The effect of the venom strike manifests itself a few
seconds after it is implemented, and is described by Bendis as being
comparable to the feeling of being kicked in the testicles. Miles'
body also possesses a strong resistance to injury. During an altercation
with the Roxxon mercenary Taskmaster, Miles is hurled toward a low brick
wall, shattering it, without any apparent serious injury, though the
experience is painful for him.

Miles wears a costume given to him by S.H.I.E.L.D., and initially
uses Peter Parker's web shooters, which are given to him by May
Parker. He is eventually given a new set of webshooters by
S.H.I.E.L.D. as well.

It is later revealed that OZ formula also grants immortality, therefore
it prolongs Miles' life as long it is remain in his system.


Reception

The character Miles Morales was first reported by USA Today on August
2, 2011, shortly before the character officially debuted in Ultimate
Fallout #4. The announcement received international coverage
in the mainstream media and was met with mixed reactions by
audiences. Chris Huntington of The New York Times lauded the
creation of Morales, relating that it gave his adopted Ethiopian son
Dagim a superhero who looks like him. Some fans and commentators
felt the decision was an attempt by  to be politically
correct and that the introduction of a minority Spider-Man was simply a
publicity stunt to attract more readers, while others felt
that a person of color as Spider-Man would set a positive example for
minority readers, particularly children. Many Spider-Man fans were
disappointed that Peter Parker was killed, regardless of who replaced
him. The wide-ranging critical reception prompted The Washington
Post to run an article called, "Sorry, Peter Parker. The response to
the black Spider-Man shows why we need one", in which writer Alexandra
Petri wrote that the character should be judged on the quality of its
stories rather than on his appearance or ethnicity.

Similarly, conservative talkshow host Glenn Beck, claiming that Miles
resembled President Barack Obama, argued that the new Spider-Man was a
result of a comment from Michelle Obama about changing traditions.
However, Beck said he did not care about Miles' race, and also
acknowledged out that this was not the mainstream Spider-Man. Axel
Alonso denied the character was created out of political correctness,
stating "Simple fact is  reflect the world in all its
shapes, sizes and colors. We believe there's an audience of people out
there who is thirsty for a character like Miles Morales." Original
Spider-Man co-creator Stan Lee approved of Miles, stating that "Doing
our bit to try to make our nation, and the world, color blind is
definitely the right thing."

In a review for the first issue, David Pepose of Newsarama wrote, "The
biggest victory that Bendis scores with Miles Morales is that he makes
us care about him, and care about him quickly. Even though we're still
scratching the surface of what makes him tick, we're seeing the world
through his eyes, and it's similar to Peter Parker's but a whole lot
tougher. But that kind of Parker-style guilt—that neurotic, nearly
masochistic tendency for self-sacrifice that comes with great power and
greater responsibility—is still intact." Jesse Schedeen of IGN
wrote that "Miles still feels like a bit of an outsider in his own book.
Bendis never quite paints a complete picture of Miles—his thoughts,
motivations, personality quirks, and so forth. Miles is largely a
reactionary figure throughout the book as he confronts struggles like
registering for a charter school or dealing with family squabbles."
Schedeen also opined that "Miles occupies a more urban, racially
diverse, and tense landscape. All the story doesn't pander or lean too
heavily on elements like racial and economic tension to move forward.
Miles is simply a character who speaks to a slightly different teen
experience, and one not nearly as well represented in superhero comics
as Peter's". James Hunt of Comic Book Resources rated the issue #1
four and a half out of five stars, lauding Bendis for emphasizing
Morales' character and his supporting cast instead of rushing him into
costume. The first issue holds an score of 7.8 out of 10 at the
review aggregator website Comic Book Roundup, based on 11 reviews, while
the final issue, #28, holds a score of 8.3, based on 9 reviews, and the
series overall holds an average issue rating of 8.2.

The second solo series, Miles Morales: Ultimate Spider-Man, has an
average issue rating of 8.2 at Comic Book Roundup.


Other versions

At the conclusion of the 2012 miniseries Spider-Men, in which the
mainstream  Universe Peter Parker briefly visits the Ultimate
 universe and meets Miles Morales, Parker returns to his home
universe, and uses a Google search to see if his universe has a version
of Miles Morales. He is shocked by what he finds, but the exact nature
of what he finds is left unrevealed to the reader.

In Deadpool Killustrated #1 (2012), Miles Morales' corpse is seen
among those of various Spider-Men across various dimensions of the
multiverse that an alternate Deadpool has killed.


In other media

Television and film

[Morales as he appears in the Disney XD TV series Ultimate Spider-Man]
Miles Morales appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man TV series where he
was initially voiced by Donald Glover in the Web Warriors season
and by Ogie Banks starting with "Miles from Home". Miles Morales' name
and picture appears in the episode "I Am Spider-Man" on a list of
understudies for the part of Spider-Man in Phil Coulson's high school
play. He is the second to last choice, while Peter Parker is the last
choice. In May 2014, the Sunday badge for the 2014 New York Comic Con
was revealed, featuring the third season title Ultimate Spider-Man:
Web-Warriors, and showing various incarnations of Spider-Man, including
one wearing Miles Morales' costume. Web Warriors is a third
season storyline in which Peter Parker travels through various parallel
universes, and encounters those dimensions' versions of Spider-Man,
including Miles Morales. It was later announced that Miles would
return for the show's fourth season, Ultimate Spider-Man vs The
Sinister 6, under the alias KID ARACHNID. In the episode "Miles
from Home", now voiced by Ogie Banks, Miles had a brief fight with his
Green Goblin while getting his mother Rio (who in this reality knows
Miles is Spider-Man) a birthday cake. Spider-Man brought Miles to his
reality again to help fight Green Goblin. After Green Goblin and Doctor
Octopus were defeated, Miles was trapped in Spider-Man's reality. Doctor
Strange opened a temporal window so that Miles could let his mother know
that he's all right and he will find a way back to her. Spider-Man then
took Miles to the Triskelion where he met Agent Venom, Iron Spider, and
Scarlet Spider. In the episode "Iron Vulture", Spider-Man, Miles
Morales, and Agent Venom defeated Batroc the Leaper. Later on, Miles
meets Harry Osborn and Norman Osborn before they are attacked by Vulture
and Doctor Octopus. Due to a naming by Doctor Octopus, Miles Morales
uses the alias of Kid Arachnid as he helps Spider-Man and Norman Osborn
in his Iron Patriot armor defeat Doctor Octopus and Vulture.

Writer Brian Michael Bendis has stated that he favors incorporating
Miles into the Spider-Man feature films in some way, as does
actor Andrew Garfield. However, producers Avi Arad and Matt Tolmach
have indicated in 2014 that they did not intend to have Miles or any
other character replace Peter Parker in the role. However,
after  brokered a deal with Sony, which holds the feature film
rights to all Spider-Man characters, Kevin Feige stated while Miles
Morales will not be appearing in the  Cinematic Universe for the
foreseeable future, he is still interested in exploring opportunities to
explore the character.

Video games

-   Miles Morales' Spider-Man suit is available as an alternate costume
    for Spider-Man (Peter Parker) in Spider-Man: Edge of Time.
-   Miles Morales appears as a playable character in  Super Hero
    Squad Online, voiced by Alimi Ballard.
-   Miles Morales' Spider-Man costume appears in the 2014 video game
    The Amazing Spider-Man 2, with the in-game biography stating that
    the costume was inspired by a comic series in the in-game universe
    that looks at Miles Morales' life as Spider-Man.
-   Miles Morales is a playable character in Spider-Man Unlimited.
-   Miles Morales is a playable character in : Avengers
    Alliance.
-   Miles Morales is a playable character in  Puzzle Quest.
-   Miles Morales is a playable character in  Future Fight.
-   Miles Morales is a playable character in : Contest of
    Champions.

