SPIDER-MAN 2099 is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic
books published by . The character was created by Peter
David and Rick Leonardi in 1992 for '  2099 comic
book line. His secret alter ego is MIGUEL O'HARA, a brilliant geneticist
living in New York in the year 2099 A.D. who is attempting to recreate
the abilities of the original Spider-Man in other people and later
suffers a related accident that causes half his DNA to be re-written
with a spider's genetic code. O'Hara is the first Latino character to
assume the identity of Spider-Man.


Publication history

Spider-Man 2099 was one of the many  characters to be re-imagined
for the  2099 comic book line that showed future versions of
classic  characters living in the year 2099, a century after the
current  Universe time period (the  2099 timeline began its
run in 1992, approximately 107 years prior to the year in which the new
books would take place). Spider-Man 2099 was first featured in a
five-page sneak preview of the first issue of his then-upcoming series
in the 30th anniversary issue of The Amazing Spider-Man. The
Spider-Man 2099 series' first issue appeared shortly afterward. When
originally published, the  2099 stories were meant to depict the
official future of the  Universe: a dystopian America governed by
corrupt megacorporations with a number of cyberpunk elements.

The character was originally designed by artist Rick Leonardi, with
Peter David brought onto the series as writer to flesh out the
character’s alter ego and supporting characters. Spider-Man 2099 #1
was written by Peter David, pencilled by Rick Leonardi, inked by Al
Williamson, and lettered by Rick Parker. Spider-Man 2099 #1 is the
highest selling single issue of any comic written by Peter David.

Although the book was continuously selling more than 100,000 copies per
issue, the book and entire 2099 comic line underwent a drastic shift in
early 1996, with the firing of the 2099 series editor Joey Cavalieri. At
this time, 's finances and future were unstable, and sudden
firings were quite common. Like virtually all of the other writers in
the line, Peter David chose to show solidarity with his editor, and
resigned from the book with issue #44.  turned the 2099 titles
over to fill-in writers and editors. The last two issues of Spider-Man
2099 were done without Peter David's input and the series ended with
issue #46. A few months later, demonstrating the popularity of the 2099
imprint,  announced they would publish a new 2099 title, 2099:
World of Tomorrow, immediately following the last issues of the
original titles, under the new staff. The new bi-monthly title lasted
eight issues and was meant to serve as a finale for the 2099 line and
the end of its regular publication.

Miguel O'Hara was seen again without a costume in 1998 in 2099:
Manifest Destiny, a one-shot issue intended to bring further closure to
the 2099 line and its unresolved storylines. The character has since
made several cameo and guest appearances in such titles as Captain
 vol. 3 #27–30 (written by Peter David) and in Exiles
#75–99.  published a collected edition of the first ten issues
of the original series in April 2009 and a second collection in
October 2013 collecting up to #14. Spider-Man 2099 next appeared in The
Superior Spider-Man #17–19 in September and October 2013, with
Miguel O'Hara stranded in the mainstream  timeline at the end of
the story.

The character and setting were reimagined for the Timestorm 2009–2099
four-issue limited series published from April to August 2009. Although
bearing the Spider-Man 2099 moniker, it is a different version of the
character.

[Writer Peter David and artist Will Sliney, the creative team on the
2014 series.] In the 2013 "Necessary Evil" storyline in The Superior
Spider-Man, the character is stranded in the present. In July 2014
 launched a second Spider-Man 2099 series, with Peter David
returning as writer, Will Sliney as artist, and Simone Bianchi
illustrating the first issue's cover. The character appears in the 2014
"Spider-Verse" crossover storyline that involves different versions of
Spider-Man, including Peter Parker.


Fictional character biography

Early years

Miguel O'Hara is born in New York City, many years after the end of what
his people's history calls the "Heroic Age", which is the modern day era
of  heroes. He grows up with his mother Conchata, his younger
brother Gabriel, and his abusive father George O'Hara. A rebellious boy
with prodigy-level intelligence, Miguel is an adolescent when he is
awarded enrollment into the Alchemax School for Gifted Youngsters
(heavily implied to be a renovated version of the X-Men's headquarters)
in Westchester, owned by the powerful Alchemax megacorporation which
also controls local law enforcement agencies. Here, he befriends Xina
Kwan, a girl of similar intelligence who specializes in computers. Xina
helps Miguel defend himself against the bully Kron Stone, son of Tyler
Stone: Vice President of R&D for Alchemax.

As adults, Miguel and Xina date seriously until Miguel cheats on her
with Dana D'Angelo, who originally is the girlfriend of Miguel's brother
Gabe. Later on, Miguel and Dana are engaged. Though seemingly
arrogant and confident in all walks of life, Miguel is a very private
man and trusts almost no one save for his apartment's holographic aid
Lyla, an artificial intelligence programmed by Xina.

Origin as Spider-Man

Miguel eventually becomes head of the genetics program of Alchemax,
intended to create new corporation-controlled super-powered soldiers
called "corporate raiders." Miguel is specifically inspired by surviving
records concerning Spider-Man and hopes to one day create a similarly
powered person. But after a human test subject dies during an early
experiment, Miguel tells Tyler Stone he wishes to resign from Alchemax
and discontinue his genetics research. Rather than let Miguel leave,
Tyler Stone tricks him into taking Rapture, an addictive drug that
genetically bonds to the user. Tyler reminds Miguel that only Alchemax
is allowed to legally distribute this drug, so if O'Hara does not remain
with the corporation then Tyler must assume he is getting the drug from
the black market and will be forced to tell the police. Not wishing to
be a blackmailed addict, Miguel recalls that he entered his own genetic
code into his machine's databanks during initial experiments, using it
as a human DNA test sample. Intending to use this older template of his
pure genetic code to write over his current biology and free himself
from the Rapture, Miguel sneaks into Alchemax and uses the gene
alteration machines on himself.

After Miguel turns on the machine to rewrite his DNA, his jealous
subordinate Aaron Delgado sabotages the machines, causing them to alter
Miguel's genetic code to be "50% spider DNA." Miguel survives the
process, but realizes he now has spider-abilities.

Realizing that there is now a person with abilities similar to
Spider-Man, Tyler Stone sends agents to hunt this person. To conceal his
identity while he fights his pursuers, Miguel dons a bodysuit with a
mask that he once wore for the Mexican Day of the Dead festival. Miguel
chooses this costume in particular because it is the only clothing he
has that is made from "UMF" (Unstable Molecule Fabric), meaning it is
the only clothing he owns that will not be torn or shred by the
spider-talons that now occupy his hands and feet. After seeing him
operate in public, a group of Thorites (worshipers of the  hero
Thor) come to believe that Miguel is the legendary Spider-Man back from
the dead, and that he is the harbinger of Thor's eventual return.

Heroic career

Originally focused with finding a cure for his condition, Miguel's
further adventures as Spider-Man 2099 cause him to realize how ignorant
of the world he was and how he had turned a blind eye to the oppression
and pain the corporations of the world have caused. He is also surprised
at the effect his presence has on the people who have been oppressed for
so long, particularly his own mother, who ironically also hates the man
her eldest son has become, admires the exploits of Spider-Man 2099.
After this, Miguel decides to embrace his identity as Spider-Man.
Donning his costume, he publicly proclaims himself to be an enemy to all
the megacorps, saying he will use his powers to fight for ordinary
people against those in power who abuse their influence and
authority.

Later on, Miguel discovers that an arrogant scientist at Alchemax called
Jordan Boone is conducting "Virtual Unreality" experiments to create a
doorway into another dimension. These experiments lead to the release of
two mysterious figures: the Net Prophet, called "the prophet of Thor" by
the Thorites, and a powerful megalomaniac called Thanatos. The Net
Prophet becomes a new ally to Miguel. Since the Net Prophet is believed
to be Thor's prophet, his association with Spider-Man 2099 leads more
people to believe that Miguel's alter ego is the harbinger of Thor.

In the "Time Flies Saga" that occurs years later in Peter David's
Captain  series, it is revealed that the Net Prophet is actually
the hero Justice (John Roger Tensen) and that Thanatos is a corrupt
version of Rick Jones from Earth-9309.

The first major crossover of  2099 happens when Miguel and Dana
visit Alchemax's floating city "Valhalla" and are startled by the sudden
appearance of two men claiming to be Thor and Heimdall, respectively. It
is later discovered that Alchemax CEO Avatarr has transformed ordinary
people into duplicates of the Asgardians in order to eliminate the
rising influence of new superheroes over the public. By joining forces,
Doom, Ravage, the Punisher (Jake Gallows), the X-Men, and Spider-Man
2099 are able to defeat the fake Aesir, and Valhalla falls.

Miguel later learns that Gabe is aware of his dual identity, having
recognized Spider-Man's costume from what Miguel wore to the Day of the
Dead festival years earlier. Gabe has grown a bit resentful of Miguel's
new heroic career, particularly since his girlfriend Kasey seems
enamored with the costumed Spider-Man 2099.

After his holographic aid Lyla suffers a serious malfunction, Miguel
asks for repairs from his ex-girlfriend Xina. Dana later accuses Miguel
of cheating on her with Xina. Miguel becomes angry about this and about
Dana's noticeably increasing interest in Tyler Stone. The two dissolve
their romantic relationship, and Xina and Miguel become companions
again.

Spider-Man 2099 Meets Spider-Man

In the 1995 one-shot Spider-Man 2099 Meets Spider-Man, Miguel and
Peter Parker, the Spider-Man of the Heroic Age, find themselves having
switched places, with Miguel waking up next to Peter's wife, Mary Jane,
and Spider-Man finding himself in the future. They discover that their
predicament is caused by Fujikawa (in the Modern Age) and Alchemax (in
the year 2099) running experiments on a temporal energy generator. While
Peter tackles the Vulture of 2099, Miguel faces Venom (Eddie Brock).
Miguel realizes that this temporal anomaly is what will cause the end of
the Heroic Age, since where he is in the past is when history tells him
all the heroes and much of Earth's culture and technology were wiped
out.

The two Spider-Man characters were united to face a major cause of the
chaos, a time-traveling female Hobgoblin of the year 2211 (Robin Borne)
from the alternative universe of Earth-9500. They are aided by this
Hobgoblin's father, Spider-Man (Max Borne), and eventually everyone is
sent back to their respective times.

It is noted at the end of this adventure that by being in the past,
Miguel has slightly altered his present world of 2099 since his actions
have postponed the end of the Heroic Age to a now-unknown date. This
implied that the world of  2099 might no longer have been the
definite future of the modern  Universe and in later stories it
was said that  2099 occurs on the parallel world of Earth-928
(mainstream  stories occur on Earth-616).

Revelations, Nightshade, and "One Nation Under Doom"

While eavesdropping on a conversation between his mother and Tyler
Stone, Miguel learns that the Rapture that Stone gave him was only a
short-lasting simulation and would have worn off in time. He also learns
that Tyler Stone is his real father. Bothered by this, he leaves New
York to go traveling with Xina. During this time, they travel to
Nightshade, an independent research town (free of megacorp rule) run by
Angela Daskelakis, their former headmistress at the Alchemax institute.
While they are visiting Alchemax attempts a hostile takeover of
Nightshade, destroying most of the city and killing Angela in the
process. Xina returns home and Miguel disappears into the desert, saved
by a group of scavengers. As Spider-Man, they ask him to try and fix an
old homunculus-like robot they had found. After seeing Spider-Man's
mask, it transforms itself into a hybrid of the present day Spider-Man
and Venom, naming itself Flipside. Seemingly harmless at first, the
robot begins showing psychopathic and homicidal tendencies. Miguel
escapes, leaving the scavengers to Flipside's mercy and returns to New
York.

Upon his return, Miguel finds out that Doom 2099 has assumed control
over the U.S. and its megacorps. Tyler Stone is appointed as Doom’s
Corporate Minister and Miguel is offered the seat of CEO of Alchemax.
Later, Doom 2099 offers Spider-Man 2099 the position of Minister of
Supernormal Affairs. Miguel eventually accepts the position at Alchemax,
deciding to change the company for the better. He also uses his new
influence to order law enforcement to leave Spider-Man 2099 alone.

Venom, Submariner, and Goblin 2099

After assuming his new position of power, Miguel winds up encountering a
modern version of the original Spider-Man's enemy Venom. The Venom
symbiote, still alive, though slightly altered, takes on a new host body
and attacks Tyler Stone, currently hospitalized after being shot. During
a later battle between Spider-Man 2099 and Venom 2099, Dana is
killed.

Soon after this, a new villain called the Goblin appears and begins a
smear campaign against Spider-Man 2099, displaying out-of-context
evidence that implies he is actually a tool of the corporations and only
pretends to be a hero of the people. Miguel hopes to get aid from Doom
2099, but the monarch is then removed from power.

Meanwhile, as Miguel O'Hara, he must deal with Alchemax business,
including an uprising by the bio-engineered Neo-Atlanteans, who were
bred as workers to complete Alchemax's underwater colony "Atlantis".
Miguel gets help when his mother becomes his secretary, attempting to
rebuild their relationship and confessing that she was the one who shot
Tyler Stone. The neo-Atlanteans, led by Roman the new Sub-Mariner (a
reverse spelling of the original, Namor), attack the city but are fended
off by Spider-Man.

As the Spider-Man 2099 series approached its end, Miguel confronts the
Goblin again and learns that it is actually his brother Gabe, twisted by
jealousy towards his brother. This story is put aside as the Phalanx
approaches earth, flooding New York and paving the way for the
Atlanteans to return en masse. The final volume sees the apparent deaths
of Tyler Stone and Miguel's mother at the hands of the Atlanteans, as
the Vulture destroys the Alchemax building. Miguel, along with Dana's
sister, Jennifer, are left in an Alchemax airship, trying to decide
where to find a safe place to go.

In the Manifest Destiny one-shot his mother is said to have survived
and in Superior Spider-Man #17 his father is revealed to be alive as
well.

After series cancellation

In 2099: World of Tomorrow, the polar ice caps melt and a massive
deluge kills most of the world's inhabitants. The remnants of humanity
face a new threat from space: the techno-organic Phalanx. Spider-Man
works together with Doom 2099 to end the invasion, in which Doom
sacrifices himself for the survival of mankind.

In the later one-shot 2099: Manifest Destiny, society rebuilds
following the Phalanx invasion. Miguel reopens Alchemax and marries
Xina. Together, they reawaken Steve Rogers, offering him Thor's hammer,
Mjolnir (it had been previously established in mainstream 
that Steve Rogers was deemed worthy to lift Mjolnir). Jettisoned into
space, Rogers passes Mjolnir back to Miguel, who is likewise deemed
worthy enough to lift and wield the mystical hammer, gaining new power
from it.

Secretly aided by Zero Cochrane 2.0 (Ghost Rider 2099), Miguel rules for
the next thousand years, ushering in an unprecedented age of
enlightenment. Peace, morality, and progress spread from Earth to the
surrounding worlds. In 3099, Rogers is once again revived and takes the
hammer, leaving Miguel to retire. Miguel O'Hara's journey from a
cowardly, arrogant youth to superhero to galactic leader and icon comes
to an end.

Stranded in the present

There are anomalies in the 2099 timeline and it is revealed that
Tiberius Stone is indeed Miguel O'Hara's grandfather and Tyler Stone's
father. The story concludes with Tyler Stone stranding Miguel in the
present and Miguel (aided by Lyla in a holographic wristwatch) taking
the alias "Michael O'Mara" and becoming Tiberius's assistant to monitor
the wrongdoings of the newly established Alchemax. Although the
Superior Spider-Man (Doctor Octopus' mind in Peter Parker's body)
briefly betrays Miguel and leaves him fighting various hijacked
Spider-Slayers when the Green Goblin launches a mass attack on New
York, Miguel accepts Peter's explanation for his recent actions when
he returns after being restored to his body reasoning that the story is
too stupid to be anything but true. Although Spider-Man 2099 remains in
the present to monitor Alchemax after Peter learns that it is being run
by the disguised Norman Osborn.

Miguel learned that he and Liz Allan will have some significant impact
on future history when a time-traveler from 2211 came back in time to
try to kill him to prevent the consequences of their interaction,
although Miguel nevertheless refused to either let the agent kill him or
Liz. When Liz nearly discovers Miguel's identity, Miguel admits to
his origin from the future without admitting to his role as
Spider-Man. Roped into accompanying Tiberus Stone to sell
Spider-Slayers to a foreign country, Miguel is forced to fight the
Scorpion — who was hired by Alchemax to further test the Spider-Slayers
— after Stone is captured by the local rebels, but Miguel manages to
defeat Scorpion by tricking the Spider-Slayers into attacking him, while
Stone's encounter with the rebels prompts him to change his mind about
the original deal.

Spider-Verse

During the Spider-Verse storyline, Miguel O'Hara witnesses his
Avenger, Timestorm and Exiles counterparts get killed by Morlun when he
received a vision of his two counterparts and before the Exiles version
of him can flee to Earth-616. After the portal closes due to Morlun
still feeling wary about Earth-616 Spider-Man following their last
fight, Miguel leaves to find Peter Parker and to let him know what
happened. He and the other 616/Main Universe Spider Heroes of Earth
are recruited by Spider-UK, Mayday Parker Spider-Girl of Earth-982, and
Spider-Ham to join the Spider-Army to combat Inheritors, who hunt down
and devour the Spider Totems like them across the Multiverse. Using
dimension-travel technology Miguel O'Hara is able to return to 2099
where the Inheritor Daemos is killed before being revived in a clone
body; Miguel teams up with Lady Spider (May Reily), and Six-Armed
Spider-Man to find the Inheritors' weaknesses. As revived Daemos is
closing after him and his teammates, Miguel needs the Alchemax's help to
investigate the Inheritors' weakness. As Daemos arrives in 2099,
Six-Armed Spider-Man sacrifices his life to buy some time for Spider-Man
2099 and Lady Spider to create an energy field to trap Daemos.

With Daemos trapped in an energy field, Miguel assures Lady Spider that
he will not get out, explaining that the energy level holding him
multiplies exponentially the more he shoves at it. He then tells her
that they have an appointment with Tyler Stone. Upon meeting, Miguel
spots a ceiling laser pointed at him. Miguel is less than happy with
Tyler for stranding him in 2014, Tyler points out that he has returned
regardless. Miguel then requests the use of the lab adjacent to Daemos'
cell so they can dissect his previous body. Though Tyler is hesitant to
assist him, Miguel points out that he will have to go home sooner or
later. As the Spiders get to work on Daemos' corpse, his reincarnation
speaks to them through the cameras, boasting that he can't be contained,
Miguel retorts that the energy field will kill him before he breaks
free. As they get to work, Miguel asks Lady Spider to check out the
interdimensional jumping device he obtained from another version of
Miguel who tried to warn him about the Inheritors. He demonstrates how
Alchemax's computers can show how to work the device, to Lady Spider's
amazement. As Lady Spider figures out how to work the device, Daemos
attempts to broker a deal; if they let him go, he promises that he and
his siblings would leave them alone. After quickly failing to find an
alternate food source for the Inheritors to ingest, Miguel rejects
Daemos' offer for two reasons: One, he's evil, Two that he and Lady
Spider wouldn't sacrifice their counterparts to save their own skins.
Miguel then runs over the bio lab to pick up something, it is unknown
what he seeks but it was something Alchemax had cured in the 2040s. Lady
Spider then calls him, stating that Daemos had gone into a trance-like
state. His actions become apparent as Daemos commits suicide so he can
be reborn in a new clone body. However, the new Daemos is accosted by
the Punisher 2099, who strikes him three times with a titanium baseball
bat and then lights the Inheritor up with a plasma gas cannon. Though it
doesn't harm him, the flames melt the floor beneath Daemos' feet,
sending him falling into the downtown areas of Nueva York. Punisher then
calls Miguel, advising him to get somewhere safe before Daemos comes
back. Miguel and Lady Spider take the interdimensional jumping device to
the safe zone on Earth-13, only to find a great number of Spiders
massacred.

When horrified by the sight of fallen Spiders, Miguel and Lady Spider
find Toei Spider-Man's Leopardon and decide to repair it. Unable to
return to 2099 with Daemos still there, they transport the remains of
the robot to Lady Spider's universe of Earth-803. Miguel tells Lady
Spider that Leoparddon needs radiation in its arsenal for their next
confrontation with the Inheritors due to their weakness. But as they get
to work on the robot, Norman Osborn-803 calls his fellow Six Men of
Sinistry to take out Lady Spider in revenge for her thwarting their
attempted kidnapping of the mayor. Unwilling to waste any time, Miguel
leaps into action, clawing at Green Goblin, bluffing him into thinking
that he cut his throat, when he deliberately missed, forcing the Goblin
to retreat. Miguel gets hit in the back by Electro and is thrown out the
window, while Lady Spider takes cover inside Leopardon's head as Electro
unleashes a lightning storm at her. The robot then reactivates, causing
its right hand and foot to disable Electro and Vulture respectively,
before Miguel fires upon Octopus with Kraven's ship, knocking him out
cold. As they take Leopardon to rejoin the other Spiders, Lady Spider
wonders where Harold Osborn will take her to dinner. Miguel assures her
that she'll have plenty of time to figure that out after they return
from Loomworld and finish the Inheritors once and for all.

Finally arriving to Loomworld on Earth-001 to aid the surviving
Spider-Totems, Miguel and Lady Spider present Takuya Yamashiro a newly
improved Leopardon. After the Inheritors are defeated and Master Weaver
killed by the Superior Spider-Man, the surviving Spiders need to return
to their respective realities one by one. With most of the Spiders
sent back to their respective realities thanks to Spider-UK and
Earth-616 Peter Parker, only Spider-Man 2099 and Spider-Gwen remain.
Suddenly, Superior Spider-Man begins destroying the Web of Life and
Destiny with Morlun's dagger, attempting to change his fate but only
causing further harm to fabric of realities. Miguel and Gwen Stacy
attempt to help the 616 Spiders against Otto, but Peter Parker-616
orders them to return to their respective time lines before the portal
maintained by the Great Web closes. Before departing, Miguel reveals to
Gwen that in the end Peter takes his body back from Otto and the good
guys win.

Journey Back to 2099

Attempting to return home after the Spider-Verse, Miguel ends up in
post-apocalyptic year 2099 of Earth-9200 (from The Incredible Hulk:
Future Imperfect storyline). Miguel meets Ash and Sonner and tries
learn what happened in this universe, until he is found by Maestro, who
mistakes Miguel for his world's Peter Parker and imprisons him in the
same cell as a woman named Strange, and also kills Ash and Sonner,
putting their dead bodies on the Hollywood sign. With the help of
Strange, Miguel is able to return the time period he was in before the
Spider-Verse. However, he is still unable to return to 2099 and is
stuck in 2015 of Earth-616 again.

All-New, All-Different 

Following Secret Wars, Miguel remains in the present, working for
Parker Industries as he tries to improve the world without becoming
Spider-Man again, feeling that there are more than enough spider-people
to compensate for his 'absence'. However, his use of a time portal to
investigate the future only continues to reveal a devastated 2099, and
the mother of his lover, Tempest, tells Miguel that she is killed as
part of an unexplained terrorist attack, Miguel is compelled back
into action to track down the man responsible - Doctor Chronos, the man
who apparently taught robotics to Victor von Doom before his expulsion -
using a new suit Peter created for him. During the subsequent fight,
Chronos reveals that he is working for an organization known as 'the
Fist', before he dies from his injuries. It is later revealed that
Tempest's mother lied about her death, and she was really only in a
coma. Meanwhile, Roberta Mendez - the Captain America of 2099 - is
revealed to have been trapped in the past shortly after the bounty
hunter Venture escapes into the present through Miguel's time
portal. Despite Miguel and Roberta's best efforts, Venture is
retrieved and recruited by the Fist, who claim that their goal is the
destruction of the United States.


Powers and abilities

Miguel O'Hara is a highly skilled geneticist and gifted with
genius-level intelligence. Though he did not take combat training, he
quickly develops an effective fighting style that maximizes the use of
his superhuman agility, strength, senses, and intellect.

After having half of his DNA re-written with the genetic code of a
spider, Miguel develops a wide array of powers. He has the proportionate
strength, speed, and agility of a spider. If his strength is equal to
that of the original Spider-Man, he should be able to lift a maximum of
approximately 10–15 tons and leap roughly 30 feet in the air. His speed
allows him to dodge gunfire from a short distance away and move several
times faster than a normal human being can. His superhuman agility and
dexterity allow him to perform complicated acrobatic and gymnastic
maneuvers that would be impossible for even the most highly trained
athlete and help him achieve and regain perfect balance even under
extraordinary combat situations. Access to these abilities are largely
instinctual, due to his re-written genetic code.

Miguel's powers give him increased vitality and resistance to injury. He
once suffered a punctured lung, broken ribs and major abrasions, and was
still able to make it to a hospital where doctors said only his amazing
constitution kept him alive. His metabolism allows him to heal a few
times faster than a normal human, although he does not have a superhuman
healing factor such as Wolverine.

Unlike the original Spider-Man, Miguel does not possess an extra-sensory
"spider-sense" that warns him of oncoming threats. Instead, Miguel
possess enhanced vision and hearing, which the original Spider-Man does
not have. He can see in complete darkness and can accurately perceive
and zoom-in on people and objects that are a great distance away. His
enhanced vision causes him to be extremely light sensitive, however,
requiring that he wear tinted glasses to avoid being blinded in normal
lighting conditions, which he passes off as a side effect of the
Rapture. The irises of Miguel's eyes became red, although when he uses
his enhanced sight to zoom-in on an object that is far away, his eyes
often become completely white, with no visible irises or pupils. Thanks
to his enhanced vision and reflexes, he can accurately perceive objects
in motion that a normal person would see only as a blur. Miguel's
hearing is also enhanced, though not to the extent of his vision.

Spinnerets in his forearms enable him to fire an organic adhesive
substance from the top of his wrists, usable in a wide variety of ways.
Like the original Spider-Man (Peter Parker), Spider-Man 2099 can travel
at high speeds swinging on "web-lines" when necessary, and he can use
his webbing to ensnare enemies. Over time, this webbing loses its
tensile strength and can be removed. Pressure applied to his forearms
has occasionally caused him to release webbing without meaning to.

Although the original Spider-Man is able to have any part of his body
(such as his back) adhere to surfaces through unknown and invisible
means, Miguel can only cling to surfaces with his hands and feet due to
angled talons protruding from his fingers and toes. These talons are not
retractable but can fold down when Miguel concentrates and do so
automatically when he touches his own skin so that he does not injure
himself. Though only approximately an inch in length, Miguel O'Hara's
talons are capable of easily slicing through flesh and plastic. They can
even rend metal armor.

Miguel possesses venom glands and pronounced, pointed canine teeth. When
he bites a foe, he can release a toxin that temporarily paralyzes his
enemy. While the exact makeup of his venom has never been discussed, it
seems powerful enough to affect such foes as Thanatos and it differs
from real spider venom in that it does not seem to act as a digestive
agent. Miguel also cannot retract his fangs and so has had to learn how
to speak in a way that does not reveal his teeth. On occasion, this has
caused others to accuse him of mumbling.

Paraphernalia

Spider-Man 2099's costume is made from Unstable Molecule Fabric or
"UMF." Originally invented by Reed Richards of the Fantastic Four, this
fabric was made to be indestructible and was designed to interact with
super-powers without hampering them. Miguel uses his talons through the
UMF gloves and boots without tearing the cloth. The UMF does not dull
the strength or sharpness of his talons in the process. The UMF costume
has also offered Spider-Man 2099 limited protection from energy weapons,
as the energy blasts could not penetrate it. However, this did not
prevent Miguel from suffering the impact of the blasts, and he was still
seriously injured. Likewise, if Miguel fell from a great height, the UMF
would not protect him from the impact of landing, it simply would not
tear in the process.

Spider-Man 2099 has a small, web-like airfoil attached to the back of
his costume. The material for the air foil was obtained from a Thorite's
hang-glider and is made from a material called "Lyte Byte" which is
specially made to capture and direct air currents and gives off a
low-level of anti-gravity particles. This allows Spider-Man 2099 limited
gliding abilities, valuable since the New York City of 2099 has massive
skyscrapers that are often too far away for him to fire a web-line for
travel. The Lyte Byte material also allows him to shift direction while
in free fall and is very good at slowing down his descent, allowing him
to fall from great distances without reaching terminal velocity.
However, this does not grant Spider-Man 2099 actual flight. By the
second volume of Spider-Man 2099 series however, he had added
anti-gravity material to the back of his costume that enables him to
fly.

While in costume, Miguel often reinforces his mask with webbing so that
enemies cannot remove it if he is captured or disabled in some way,
provided he is not held for long enough for his webbing to degrade. He
uses his talons to cut the webbing off when he removes his costume.


Other versions

Destiny War

Another version of Spider-Man 2099 was one of the alternative Avengers
seen briefly during the Destiny War in Avengers Forever #12. During
the Spider-Verse storyline, the Destiny War version of Spider-Man 2099
was killed by Morlun.

2998 AD

In The Amazing Spider-Man #439, the issue takes place 1,000 years
(2998 based on the release date of the issue) in the future. Two
archaeologists stumble across relics belonging to Spider-Man (such as
his webshooters). They speculate on his career, and discuss the other
heroes who were inspired by him, such as Spider-Girl, Spider-Man 2099,
and Spider-Man 2211.

What The--?!_

In issue #26 of What The--?!_, a humor anthology title, the character
Spider-Ham (an anthropomorphic pig who parodied the original Spider-Man)
was reworked for a parody of Spider-Man 2099 entitled "Spider-Ham
15.88". A laboratory janitor named "Piguel O'Hara" accidentally falls
into a vat of spider venom and gains spider-powers. A short (and
confusing) excursion as Spider-Ham 2099 follows, including encounters
with parody versions of Punisher 2099 and Ravage 2099.

Exiles

[Spider-Man 2099 with the Exiles.] The appearance of Proteus in the 2099
era before Doom 2099 comes into power causes a divergence from the
original  2099, creating a new parallel reality. This new timeline
where Miguel is unmasked and leaves his world before Doom takes power is
now identified as Earth-6375.

After battling the Exiles, a team of heroes from parallel worlds who
attempt to fix damaged realities, the villain Proteus possesses the body
of John "Net Prophet" Tensen and escapes to the parallel Earth
designated Earth-928 via Jordan Boone's Virtual Unreality portal
(mirroring the Net Prophet's first arrival into 2099). This is the world
of the  2099 future, though Proteus arrives at a time before Doom
took over leadership of the United States.

Proteus then possesses the Hulk of that era. Spider-Man 2099 joins
forces with the Exiles to stop him. Proteus, being too strong for his
opponent, unmasks Miguel O'Hara before the public. Spider-Man 2099 then
convinces Proteus that coming to his reality was a mistake and that he
should move on. Feeling guilty that he has inflicted the crazed villain
onto a parallel Earth, and now afraid of being hunted down since his
identity has been exposed, Spider-Man 2099 joins the Exiles in their
quest to stop Proteus and leaves his world.

After Proteus is defeated, Spider-Man 2099 remains with the Exiles to
help them continue to fix damaged realities. After a couple more
adventures, the Exiles are scattered across the multiverse and Miguel
O'Hara winds up on a parallel world where he is found by a red-haired
woman living on the beach, later revealed to be that world's Mary Jane
Watson. After an unspecified amount of time, the woman and Miguel fall
in love and he remains on that world.

Years later, he and Mary Jane are still together when the attacks of
Morlun during the Spider-Verse storyline are felt. Miguel learned
about Morlun during Miguel's tenure with the Exiles, and senses Morlun
is out there killing spiders. He gathers some of the Exiles' old
equipment and prepares to flee to Earth-616, where Morlun was once
killed. However, just as Miguel and Mary Jane are about to make the
jump, Morlun arrives and kills that Miguel in front of the Miguel from
the original timeline stranded in the present. Morlun disappears and the
portal closes, leaving the Exiles' Miguel dead and the 616 Miguel
desperate to find Peter Parker.

Timestorm 2009–2099

In the 2009 miniseries Timestorm 2009–2099, O'Hara is younger than in
his original version. His father is a scientist at Alchemax and Miguel
himself is a high school student attending the Pym Academy. Miguel
lives with his father with no siblings, as opposed to the original
incarnation in which he lives with his mother and brother Gabriel.

Miguel received his powers in an accident caused by the Timestorm. At
the time, he was attending a class on biological re-engineering in which
he and his classmates were altering the genetic code of various bugs.
When the Timestorm happened, his DNA was mixed with that of the spider
he was working on. His powers are extremely similar to those of Peter
Parker's, including a spider-sense, with the exception of Miguel's
organic webbing, that is shot from the top of his hand. As opposed to
the original incarnation of Miguel O'Hara, the Timestorm version does
not appear to have razor sharp "talons" on his hands and feet.

After gaining his powers, he creates his Spider-Man costume in a 3D
printer and helps a time-lost Peter Parker battle Scorpion 2099 (Kron
Stone, who was caught in the same accident as Miguel). The original
Spider-Man advises him not to be a hero as it is too dangerous, and he
instead uses his powers in a fighting arena against the Atlantean Human
Torch.

During the 2014 "Spider-Verse" storyline, the Timestorm version of
Spider-Man 2099 was killed by Morlun.

Secret Wars

After the Multiverse was destroyed during the Secret Wars event, the
surviving fragments of the Earths formed a single planet called
Battleworld. One domain of the patchworkd planet is 2099 where the
Alchemax reigns supreme. However, this is not the same reality as
Earth-982, as Miguel goes by his birth name Miguel Stone and is the
morally dubious head of Alchemax, which he took over from his father
Tyler Stone. Miguel presides over the Alchemax-sponsored Avengers,
consisting of Hercules and future versions of Iron Man (Sonny Frisco),
Captain America (Roberta Mendez), Black Widow (Tania) and Hawkeye (Max).
When the teams comes into conflict with Defenders, consisting of Hulk
2099, Silver Surfer, Valkyrie, Strange and Sub-Mariner (Roman), Miguel
offers them to go legitimate and work for Alchemax. The moment their
leader Strange refuses, he orders the entire team detained at any
cost. The teams though end up having to work together in the end
when Martin Hargood, the descendant of Baron Mordo breaks into Alchemax
and frees the Dweller in Darkness to wreak havoc. The teams succeed in
stopping Mordo and re-banishing the Dweller, and Miguel decides to leave
the Defenders alone. He also, in the chaos, throws his father from out a
window from the top of the Alchemax building.


In other media

Television

-   A Spider-Man 2099 animated series was in development in 1999.
    However, it did not have connections to Spider-Man's supporting
    characters and was later shelved in favor of Spider-Man Unlimited.
-   Spider-Man 2099 appears in the third season of the animated Disney
    XD TV series Ultimate Spider-Man, voiced by Freddy Rodriguez, in
    the four-part storyline "The Spider-Verse", marking his first
    animated appearance. In this version, Spider-Man 2099 possesses a
    "spider-sense" like the original Spider-Man. Also, the first segment
    featuring him is exclusively animated in CGI, as opposed to the
    series' usual cel-shaded animation (although, during part four,
    Spider-Man 2099 is cel-shaded).
    -   In part one, the Green Goblin uses a device known as the Siege
        Perilous, using Electro as a living power source, to travel to a
        futuristic dimension that takes place in the year 2099 to find
        the Spider-Man of that universe, in order to steal his DNA.
        However, the Spider-Man of his universe, the "Ultimate"
        Spider-Man, arrives in the dimension as well. Spider-Man is
        amazed at the advanced, futuristic New York City, before
        noticing a robbery at Alchemax by robotic drones. Spider-Man
        battles and defeats all but one drone. However, a Spider-Man
        dressed in a blue metallic costume comes in and trashes the
        robot right as it's about to attack Spider-Man. Spider-Man is
        amazed at Spider-Man 2099's costume, only for the latter to
        attack him. Miguel questions Peter if he is an android or a
        clone, which Spider-Man declines, stating he is a counterpart.
        Spider-Man 2099 is unconvinced and continues
        attacking Spider-Man. Peter continues to try and convince Miguel
        that he is a counterpart. Miguel finally relents, telling Peter
        that he "doesn't know who you're pretending to be". He tells
        Peter that "Spider-Man is just a legend that someone is trying
        to recreate....unsuccessfully". However, they are attacked by
        the Green Goblin. Spider-Man and Spider-Man 2099 battle the
        Goblin, though they fail to stop him from stealing a blood
        sample from Miguel. Having gotten what he sought in the future,
        Goblin blasts missiles at the building's top level to distract
        the Spider-Men before opening another time portal to escape.
        Spider-Man and Spider-Man 2099 stop it by interweaving their
        webs together in order to make a cable strong enough to keep the
        building from collapsing. Miguel thanks Peter for helping him,
        and Peter tells him that New York will always need a Spider-Man
        to protect it, and the two bid each other farewell.
    -   Spider-Man 2099 reappears in part four, summoned by the
        "Ultimate" Spider-Man, alongside several other alternate
        Spider-Men, Spider-Man Noir, Spyder-Knight, Spider-Girl,
        Spider-Ham and Ultimate Spider-Man to form the WEB-WARRIORS in
        order to combat SPIDER-GOBLIN, an arachnid-esque form of the
        Goblin caused by injecting himself with a serum composed of
        every Spider-Man's DNA. The Web-Warriors battle Spider-Goblin,
        and with the help of Electro, manage to depower him, turning him
        back into Norman Osborn. However, Electro then betrays them,
        merging himself with the Helicarrier, transforming it into a
        massive battle mecha. The Web-Warriors distract Electro while
        Spider-Girl and Spider-Ham manage to shut down the Helicarrier.
        After Spider-Man defeats Electro, Spider-Man 2099 returns to his
        dimension, along with the rest of the Web-Warriors.

Video games

-   Spider-Man 2099 was an unlockable costume for Spider-Man in the
    first of Activision's Spider-Man games for Sony PlayStation, Sega
    Dreamcast, Nintendo 64, and the Windows/PC platform. The unlockable
    character returned in the game's sequel, Spider-Man 2: Enter
    Electro. The suit allowed the player double strength than the
    original costume. This ability was originally intended to be for the
    2099 suit only, but was included in Captain Universe costume
    as well. All Spider-Man characters, including Spider-Man 2099, were
    voiced by Rino Romano.
-    2099: One Nation Under Doom is a 2D side-scrolling game
    with 3D rendered characters based on the "One Nation Under Doom"
    comic storyline. Spider-Man 2099 was a playable character in the
    developed, but canceled, video game by Mindscape for the
    PlayStation.
-   Spider-Man 2099 is also a Wii exclusive unlockable costume for
    Spider-Man: Web of Shadows by completing 50 city events.
-   Spider-Man 2099 is a playable character in the  Super Hero
    Squad video game.
-   Spider-Man 2099 is a playable character in  Super Hero Squad
    Online, voiced by Yuri Lowenthal.
-   Spider-Man 2099 is one of four versions of Spider-Man featured as
    playable protagonists in Spider-Man: Shattered Dimensions, voiced
    by Dan Gilvezan (Peter Parker's voice in the 1980s cartoon series
    Spider-Man and His Amazing Friends). In the game, he can also
    don the outfits of Earth-616's Iron Spider-Man (worn during the
    comics storyline "Civil War"), the silver Spider-Armor (worn in Web
    of Spider-Man #100), and his robotic nemesis Flipside's costume. To
    fight the Scorpion's Timestorm 2009–2099 version and the Vulture
    2099, as well as new characters (Hobgoblin 2099, a female Doctor
    Octopus 2099 and Silvermane's 2099 version), Madame Web bestows
    Miguel O'Hara with a spider-sense that he can use in his missions.
-   Spider-Man 2099 is a playable character in Spider-Man: Edge of
    Time, voiced by Christopher Daniel Barnes (Spider-Man's voice in
    the 1994 TV series). In the game, Miguel O'Hara attempts to stop
    Walker Sloan from using time travel to rewrite history by allowing
    Alchemax to be founded earlier than it originally was. In the course
    of the story's events, Miguel himself travels back in time and meets
    Peter Parker, with the time portal that allows travel between their
    eras creating a 'quantum causality' effect whereby changing events
    in Peter's time automatically changes events in Miguel's era, such
    as Peter destroying a prototype security robot in his time to
    destroy the robots attacking Miguel in the future, or a
    time-displaced Miguel altering the plans for the future building to
    give Peter an escape route from a future ambush. During the course
    of the game, the real villain is revealed to be the aged Peter
    Parker of Miguel's time, having kept himself alive through
    anti-aging drugs but now insane from the losses he has suffered,
    seeking to use his time portal to rewrite reality. Peter and Miguel
    manage to cooperate to defeat Peter's future self and undo his
    changes to history.


Collected editions

Original series

  Title                                                Material collected                                                                                          Year                ISBN
  ---------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ------
  Spider-Man 2099 Volume 1                           Spider-Man 2099 Vol. 1 #1–10                                                                              May 2009            
  Spider-Man 2099 Volume 2                           Spider-Man 2099 Vol. 1 #11–14, Annual 1, material from 2099 Unlimited #1–3                              October 2013        
  Spider-Man 2099 Volume 3: The Fall of the Hammer   Spider-Man 2099 Vol. 1 #15–22, Ravage 2099 #15, X-Men 2099 #5, Doom 2099 #14, Punisher 2099 #13   February 2015   

2014 series

  Title                                            Material collected                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Year                ISBN
  ------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ------
  Spider-Man 2099 Volume 1: Out of Time          Spider-Man 2099 Vol. 2 #1–5, material from Amazing Spider-Man Vol. 3 #1                                                                                                                                                                                                                              February 2015   
  Amazing Spider-Man: Spider-Verse (harover)   Spider-Man 2099 Vol. 2 #6–8, Amazing Spider-Man Vol. 3 #7–15, Superior Spider-Man #32, 33, Free Comic Book Day 2014: Guardians of the Galaxy, Spider-Verse #1, Spider-Verse Team-Up #1–3, Edge of Spider-Verse #1–4, Scarlet Spiders #1–3, Spider-Woman #1–3, Spider-Ham: Pig Time   April 2015      
  Spider-Man 2099 Volume 2: Spider-Verse         Spider-Man 2099 Vol. 2 #6-12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           July 2015       

