SPIDER-MAN NOIR or just SPIDER-MAN (Peter Parker) is a fictional
superhero created by David Hine, Fabrice Sapolsky, and Carmine Di
Giandomenico. This alternate version of Spider-Man is a darker take on
Spider-Man and the mythos is set in 1933 – during the Great Depression
and is a part of the  Noir universe. Unlike the mainstream version
of Peter Parker, this character uses a gun and does not stick to walls.
Since his inception, the character has appeared in numerous media
including Spider-Man: Shattered Dimensions as one of the main playable
characters.


Character biography

While Peter Parker still becomes the titular Spider-Man in the comic
book starring his name, the initial focus of the story is upon Daily
Bugle reporter Ben Urich, an experienced and respected reporter who has
a network of informants under the alias of the Spider. The Goblin is a
crime lord named Osborn whose henchmen consist of the Enforcers
(consisting of Ox, Fancy Dan, Montana), Kraven, the Chameleon (a master
of disguise) and the Vulture (a sideshow freak who had developed a taste
for human meat). Urich does not use the information he has to expose the
Goblin but rather to blackmail him, in order to get enough money to feed
his secret drug habit.

Urich encounters Peter Parker during an oration by Peter’s Aunt May
Parker in Central Park. The socialist slant of Aunt May’s words does not
sit well with the Enforcers, and Urich is forced to intervene in order
to prevent serious injury to either Peter or May. Urich subsequently
takes Peter under his wing, and after Peter mistakenly receives a
tip-off meant for the Spider, the young man ventures to a warehouse
where the Goblin’s men are unloading a shipment of stolen antiques. A
particular antique — a spider statue — breaks open and releases a horde
of spiders. One of the spiders bites Peter, causing him to pass out and
dream of a spider god. When he awakes, he is upside-down in a black web.

In order to censor the Daily Bugle, Osborn kidnaps the editor J. Jonah
Jameson and has the Chameleon assume his place. The Chameleon-as-Jameson
goes to Urich’s apartment and shoots him, unaware that Felicia Hardy —
owner of the Black Cat club — witnessed the murder. Hardy goes to the
Daily Bugle offices and kills the Chameleon, leaving his body to be
discovered by Spider-Man shortly before the arrival of the police.
Spider-Man escapes the attentions of the police and confronts Osborn,
having dispatched all of his henchmen in turn. During their fight, it is
revealed that Osborn is a former circus freak himself who hides his
goblin-like visage behind one of the Chameleon’s masks. After Spider-Man
refuses to kill Osborn, the spider-infested and barely still alive body
of Kraven appears and attacks the Goblin, killing him.

Later, Spider-Man visits Felicia, who reveals that she had once had a
relationship with The Goblin. Spider-Man reveals himself to be Peter in
front of her, and she asks why he is there. Peter hands her a photo
Urich had in his files earlier of him and Felicia. Spider-Man then jumps
out the window, and swings away, leaving Felicia behind.

Spider-Man Noir: Eyes Without a Face

A sequel to Spider-Man Noir. In 1934, in New York City, Peter Parker,
Spider-Man, has a new problem: The Crime Master is a masked criminal who
has taken over as the city’s crime boss. As he investigates, his
relationship with Felicia Hardy, owner of The Black Cat speakeasy,
develops. He returns home to find Joe and Robbie Robertson talking with
Aunt May. As a struggling black reporter, Robbie asks Peter to set up a
meeting with Doctor Otto Octavius who is experimenting on Ellis Island.
A few days later they meet with him and learn that he is experimenting
on monkeys to understand more about the human mind. Octavius himself is
wheelchair bound but employs controlled robotic arms, attached to the
back of his chair, to help him. After they leave, Robbie suggests the
story is deeper. That night a delivery of black slaves are delivered to
Ellis Island.

Spider-Man takes the fight to The Crime Master and busts up an operation
of drinking, girls and drugs. In a back room he discovers a soundproof
torture chamber. He goes to visit Felicia, but she is with someone else.
Returning home, he is told that Robbie has disappeared. On Ellis Island,
Octavius inspects the new test subjects, and Robbie is among them.
Octavius, working for The Friends of New Germany (TFONG), intends to use
them to prove that inferior races can be controlled by removing their
willpower surgically. Spider-Man revisits the chamber for more
information, but he is ambushed by The Crime Master and his men. With
them is The Sandman who slams Spider-Man to the ground with ease.

The police, led by Jean DeWolff, arrive too late to save Spider-Man from
a massive beating but in time to kill Sandman. The Crime Master escapes,
but Spider-Man has managed to link him with TFONG. A severely injured
Spider-Man goes to Felicia to recover. The following day she forces him
to leave before the arrival of her other man — the unmasked Crime
Master. Felicia questions him too much, and he determines that she has
been seeing Spider-Man. In fury, he attacks her with a shard of mirror.
He gets a call from the leader of TFONG, telling him to shut Ellis
Island down before they all get caught. Spider-Man goes to Ellis Island
himself and finds Robbie, but was too late as Octavius had already
drilled into his frontal lobe, leaving him motionless.

The Crime Master arrives and starts destroying Octavius’ work.
Spider-Man drives most of Crime Master’s gang away as Octavius gets his
robotic arms on The Crime Master. He slices him apart with scalpels,
desperate to save his work. Spider-Man then sets on Octavius for what he
has done, crushing his robotic arms. DeWolff arrives before Spider-Man
kills him and tells him to thank his girlfriend for calling them in.
Spider-Man sees Robbie safe and swings to see Felicia. Her guard tells
him that she does not ever want to see him again after she was hurt
because of him.

A month later, Robbie is receiving care by his parents at home, but
seeing him like this makes Peter feel guilty and upset. Mary Jane Watson
tries to comfort him outside, but he still feels he is losing everybody
he cares. Octavius is deported to Germany, where the Nazis think that
his disability renders him useless, and Felicia has recovered but wears
a cat mask to cover all the scars on her face.

Later stories

During the Spider-Verse storyline which featured Spider-Men from
various alternate realities, Spider-Man Noir starred in one-shot comic
Edge of Spider-Verse #1, at the end of which he was recruited by The
Superior Spider-Man into his army of Spiders. He was also featured
prominently in Spider-Verse Team-Up #1 alongside a six-armed
Spider-Man. In Spider-Woman Vol. 5 #1 Spider-Man Noir found himself
defending the lives of Silk and Spider-Woman (Jessica Drew) and got
wounded in the process, after which he was returned to his home reality
to heal and recuperate.

In the second volume of Spider-Verse set during the Secret Wars
event, Spider-Man Noir found himself in the domain of the Battleworld
called Arachnia, where he found and observed Spider-Gwen, Spider-Ham,
Spider-Man: India, Spider-UK, and Anya Corazon (neither of them
remembering their previous encounter during the original
Spider-Verse), though he chose not to reveal himself to them until
they crashed into one of his opearations.

Following the conclusion of Secret Wars the team of six Spiders that
formed during the event will rename itself and feature in a new ongoing
series called Web Warriors, a name that was coined by Peter Parker
from the Ultimate Spider-Man TV series during the original
Spider-Verse.


Powers and abilities

After being bitten by a spider, Parker has gained the proportionate
strength, speed and agility of a spider, along with a spider-sense and
the ability to spray organic webbing from his hands. Unlike the
traditional Spider-Man, he cannot cling to walls and his webbing does
not focus into web-lines that he can use for travel; instead, he uses
his acrobatic agility to maneuver about the rooftops and uses his
webbing as nets to both stun and capture his enemies. With his powers,
Peter dons a black mask, gloves, and trench coat in order to take down
Osborn in the disguise of the Spider-Man. He also brings a pistol.


In other media

Television

-   An alternate version of Spider-Man Noir known as SLINGER appears in
    the Avengers Assemble episode "Planet Doom", voiced by Drake Bell.
    Slinger's costume almost flawlessly resembling Spider-Man
    Noir's costume. This version is a member of the Defenders, a
    resistance group of vigilantes who are against Doctor Doom, who has
    conquered the world. Slinger works alongside BULLSEYE (Clint Barton)
    and SNAP (Sam Wilson), who are awaiting their foretold savior, the
    God of Thunder Thor's, arrival. After Doom's defeat, reality is
    restored to normal, and Slinger reverts back to Spider-Man.
-   Spider-Man Noir appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man: Web-Warriors
    episode "The Spider-Verse" Pt. 2, voiced by Milo Ventimiglia. After
    Green Goblin appears on an alternate Earth that takes place in the
    1930s while collecting the DNA of various alternate Spider-Men, he
    is confronted by a Spider-Man in a black fedora and trench coat with
    the Goblin remarking that he looks "very noir". This Spider-Man,
    nicknamed "The Spider" for short, is aided by an alternate version
    of himself, the "Ultimate" Spider-Man, who is the Goblin's enemy and
    who had followed him to this alternate Earth. However, the
    distrustful Spider-Man Noir rejects the alliance, forcefully
    unmasking the Ultimate Spider-Man, and is shocked to see a younger
    version of himself. The Noir version of Spider-Man then unmasks
    himself, revealing an adult, cynical and slightly misanthropic Peter
    Parker who lives in a seedy motel. He regards the younger Peter as a
    "pesky kid", and even attacks him when the Ultimate Spider-Man
    proposes an alliance again, preferring to work alone. He cut all
    ties to people closest to him, including his Aunt May claiming not
    to have seen her in years in order to protect her from his
    dangerous lifestyle. He even reluctantly distanced himself from his
    love interest in the form of Daily Bugle ace reporter Mary Jane
    Watson because "bad things happen to dames who hang out with guys
    like me" (alluding to the disfigurement of Felicia Hardy in "Eyes
    Without a Face"). After Green Goblin hijacks an airship to draw out
    Spider-Man Noir, taking a group of civilians present hostage
    including Mary Jane, the Spider-Men decide to work together and
    stop him. While the Ultimate Spider-Man is saving the hostages,
    Spider-Man Noir fights the Goblin on his own. Despite the seeming
    physical superiority and futuristic technology of the Goblin,
    Spider-Man Noir mercilessly beats him in a fistfight, knocking
    him out. Nevertheless, the Goblin quickly recovers, managing to take
    the DNA of a distracted Spider-Man Noir, just as Mary Jane confesses
    her feelings for the hero. The Goblin takes out the airship's
    controls causing it to crash, though not before the Spider-Men
    rescue all the hostages. Spider-Man Noir admits to both Ultimate
    Spider-Man and Mary Jane that he should drop the "lone wolf" act,
    and as his counterpart follows the Goblin to another dimension, the
    two Spider-Men depart as friends. Spider-Man Noir later returns in
    "The Spider-Verse" Pt. 4, summoned by "Ultimate" Spider-Man along
    with other Spider-Man counterparts, such as Spider-Man 2099 (a
    future version of Spider-Man), SPYDER-KNIGHT (a medieval armored
    version of Spider-Man), Spider-Girl (a female gender-swapped version
    of Spider-Man named Petra Parker), Spider-Ham (an anthropomorphic
    porcine version of Spider-Man), and Ultimate Spider-Man (an
    African-American/Hispanic teenager named Miles Morales who is
    Spider-Man's successor in the Ultimate  universe). They form a
    team known as the WEB-WARRIORS in order to combat the Green Goblin,
    who has transformed into an even more monstrous form known as the
    SPIDER-GOBLIN, thanks to a serum composed of all of the
    Spider-Men's DNA. The Web-Warriors battle and defeat Spider-Goblin,
    transforming him back into Norman Osborn. However, Electro, who had
    helped them defeat Goblin, betrays them and merges himself with the
    original Helicarrier, transforming it into a massive mecha. The
    Web-Warriors defeat Electro and detonate the
    transformed Helicarrier. With the villains defeated, the
    Web-Warriors return to their respective dimensions, Spider-Man
    Noir included.

Video games

-   Spider-Man Noir appears in the video game Spider-Man: Shattered
    Dimensions, voiced by Christopher Daniel Barnes. His reality is one
    of four alternate dimensions that is seeded by pieces of the Tablet
    of Order and Chaos. Spider-Man Noir can blend into the shadows to
    do sneak attacks on enemies.
-   Spider-Man Noir appears in the online game  Super Hero Squad
    Online.
-   Spider-Man Noir appears as one of the first DLC costumes through
    pre-order bonus in The Amazing Spider-Man 2.
-   Spider-Man Noir appears as a premium costume for Spider-Man in
     Heroes.
-   Spider-Man Noir appears as a playable character in Spider-Man
    Unlimited. Doctor Octopus Noir and Sandman Noir appears as
    boss villains.
-   Spider-Man Noir appears as a playable character in : Avengers
    Alliance.

