SPITFIRE AND THE TROUBLESHOOTERS (renamed to SPITFIRE with issue #8
and to CODENAME: SPITFIRE with issue #10) was a short-lived comic book
series from ' New Universe line. It followed "Spitfire"
(PROFESSOR JENNY SWENSEN) and a group of brilliant but eccentric college
students as they used high-tech powered exoskeletons to combat the
mysterious terrorist organization called The Club.

Following the series' cancellation, Swensen was redesigned as the
armor-skinned paranormal CHROME, and became a regular character in
DP7.

A different version of the character - DR JENNIFER SWANN - was
introduced in 2007 as part of Warren Ellis' newuniversal, a
single-title reworking of the New Universe concepts.


Publication history

Spitfire and the Troubleshooters was created for the New Universe line
by Eliot R. Brown and Jack Morelli; Brown recalls that it was Morelli
who first came up with the idea of doing the series. Recalling how
Spitfire was conceived, Brown commented, "It was more than Iron Girl, it
was a different technological attitude, more reality-based. Iron Man was
not unreal, but Iron Man as a concept did too much. Even in the 1980s,
the suit was so smart, it could have gone off and had its own
adventures. I tried to do something that was more of a garbage can with
legs and a good brain in it, something more mechanical." The concept
of the Troubleshooters was based on a series of escapades Brown shared
with a childhood friend, a student at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, while visiting him at the MIT campus in the mid-1970s.

Brown and Morelli wanted to write Spitfire and the Troubleshooters
themselves, going so far as to take reference photos of the MIT campus
and petitioning for Herb Trimpe to be the series artist. However,
when Brown approached Bob Harras to turn in the first half of the script
for issue #1, he saw that Harras had already accepted a completed script
from Gerry Conway. Issues #4 and 5 saw dramatic turns in the series
plot, as Fritz Kroetze (originally marked as the main villain of the
series) is killed off, and the Spitfire armor is destroyed, leaving
protagonist Jenny Swensen an ordinary human. Conway remained the regular
writer until issue #6, which he co-wrote with his replacement, Cary
Bates.

Bates immediately restructured the series, eliminating the
Troubleshooters, taking away Swensen's vocation as a teacher,
introducing a new supporting cast of government operatives, and
generally replacing the concept of Spitfire and the Troubleshooters
with a new espionage series, Codename: Spitfire. Codename: Spitfire
#10 saw the completion of this metamorphosis, but was also the final
issue of Bates's brief run. A single-issue stint by Fabian Nicieza saw
Swensen don a new Spitfire armor, and the series closed out with two
fill-in issues. Mediocre sales placed Codename: Spitfire among the
four New Universe titles to be cancelled at the end of its first year.

An eight page Spitfire solo story was printed in February 2006 as a
backup story in Amazing Fantasy #19 as part of the Untold Tales of
the New Universe event, which was created to commemorate the twentieth
anniversary of the New Universe. The story is set a few weeks before
Spitfire and the Troubleshooters #1.


Creators

Writers

-   Eliot R. Brown - Spitfire and the Troubleshooters #1
    (October 1986)
-   Gerry Conway - Spitfire and the Troubleshooters #1-6 (October
    1986-March 1987)
-   Jack Morelli - Spitfire and the Troubleshooters #1 (October 1986)
-   Roy Thomas - Spitfire and the Troubleshooters #5 (February 1987)
-   Cary Bates - Spitfire and the Troubleshooters #6-10 (March
    1987-July 1987)
-   Fabian Nicieza - Codename: Spitfire #11 (August 1987); ; "The
    Sublet" in Psi-Force #20 (June 1988) [back-up story]; "The Travest
    Termination" in Justice #28 (February 1989) [back-up story]
-   Len Kaminski - Codename: Spitfire #12 (September 1987)
-   Sandy Plunkett - Codename: Spitfire #13 (October 1987)

Art

-   Herb Trimpe - Spitfire and the Troubleshooters #1-2, 5 (October
    1986-November 1986, February 1987)
-   Ron Wagner - Spitfire and the Troubleshooters #3 (December 1986)
-   Todd McFarlane - Spitfire and the Troubleshooters #4
    (January 1987)
-   Vincent Giarrano - Spitfire and the Troubleshooters #6
    (March 1987)
-   Alan Kupperberg - Spitfire and the Troubleshooters #7-9 (April
    1987-June 1987)
-   Marshall Rogers - Codename: Spitfire #10 (July 1987)
-   Grant Miehm - Codename: Spitfire #11 (August 1987)
-   Javier Saltares - Codename: Spitfire #12 (September 1987)
-   Dave Hoover - Codename: Spitfire #13 (October 1987)
-   Sandy Plunkett - Codename: Spitfire #13 (October 1987)
-   Mark Bagley - "Healing Time" in Psi-Force #20 (June 1988) [back-up
    story]
-   Donald C. Hudson - "The Travest Termination" in Justice #28
    (February 1989) [back-up story]


Other versions

newuniversal - Dr. Jennifer Swann

An alternate version of Jenny Swensen is introduced as Dr. Jennifer Swan
in Warren Ellis' re-imagining of New Universe called newuniversal. Dr.
Jennifer Swann works for Project Spitfire, continuing her father's work
on the H.E.X. (Human Enhancement eXperimental) Initiative, working to
create a robotic battle suit. In the wake of the White Event and police
reports regarding Kenneth Connell, Jennifer's supervisor Philip L.
Voight informs her that H.E.X funding has been increased by a factor of
twenty and that the true mandate of Project Spitfire is to monitor
and/or kill all superhumans. It is revealed in newuniversal #3 that
she was granted the Cipher glyph, becoming the very thing she was tasked
to hunt down and kill.

Exiles

An alternate version of Spitfire was rescued (and later recruited) by
Quentin Quire; as part of Quire's version of the Exiles, in which the
team helped the surviving heroes battled the Annihilation Wave that was
led by a banished Hulk.

