SPYKE (EVAN DANIELS) is a character who was briefly a member of the
X-Men in the animated series X-Men: Evolution. Created by writer
Robert N. Skir and artist Steven E. Gordon, he first appeared in "Speed
And Spyke", episode #5 (December 9, 2000), where he was voiced by Neil
Denis.

Spyke is a high-school freshman with the mutant ability to project
spikes out of his body.

The character was originally created as a way to diversify the show's
X-Men roster. It was important to the show's creators, the WB network
(who ran the show) and  to have an African American in the
show. According to the show's producer Boyd Kirkland, turning Bishop
(the first Black male X-Man) into a teenager would not have worked.
Initially, Spyke was intended to be the team's muscle and looked closer
to how he looked in season four, but  decided they didn't like the
"monster" angle and he was given a much more normal look. He was
originally intended to be called Armadillo and have cornrows. He has
similar powers to Marrow, a pre-existing character, though Kirkland says
this was not intentional.


Character biography

Evan Daniels was born in New York City, New York to an unnamed father
and Vivian Daniels. His mutant abilities are first noticed at his high
school basketball game by his Aunt Ororo (aka Storm a longtime member of
the X-Men), and his teammate Pietro. The next night Storm, along with
Cyclops and Jean Grey, approached Evan's parents about his mutant powers
and attending Xavier's School. Evan angrily declines on his own behalf
and leaves.

He goes to his school to catch the thief who keeps breaking into his
locker. It is revealed that Pietro is not only the thief, but a mutant
with super speed powers. Pietro, who renames himself Quicksilver, breaks
into all the lockers in the school and lets Evan take the heat as he
escapes prosecution. Only when Charles Xavier uses his pull to help Evan
get out of prison does he join the X-Men and the school under the code
name Spyke. Spyke settles the score with Quicksilver when he, Cyclops,
and Jean defeat the speedy mutant. Spyke is cleared of all charges when
he catches Quicksilver's arrogant confession on tape.

During his tenure with the X-Men, Spyke didn't want any special
treatment from anyone at the school because he was Storm's nephew.
Though he liked being an X-Man and thought of them as his family, Spyke
at times acted selfishly and inconsiderate of others. Spyke would goof
around in class and on at least one occasion ditched school mid-class to
go skateboarding with his human friends. He also was late for several
training exercises in the Danger Room resulting in him getting
reprimanded by Storm and causing several X-Kids to fail in their
training exercise because Spyke was not there to back them up. If not
for him saving Storm's life from the Hungan, Spyke would have been sent
home to his parents due to his lack of concern for school and DR
training.

After he and the other X-Men were discovered to be mutants, Spyke grew
angry at how they were being treated. After drinking Pow-R8, an energy
drink that was toxic to mutants even by touching it, Spyke found out he
could not retract or fully control his spikes. After seeing how cruelly
he was treated because of his condition, Spyke joined the Morlocks (a
group of mutants who could not "pass" for human and so were driven
underground) because he wanted to fight for mutants who looked different
from normal humans. Storm did not take this well and tried to convince
Spyke to come back, but he refused.

When Evan returned later in the series, he had mutated even further, and
now most of his upper body was covered by armadillo-type bone-plates
except for his face and below the waist, and with the new ability to
heat up the bone spikes he creates. During this time, Spyke began using
his powers to fight against humans who were attempting to commit hate
crimes against the Morlocks and mutants in general. These actions
eventually led to him being the target of a group of anti-mutant bigots,
led by Duncan Matthews. Attacked with electrical mining guns, Spyke was
cornered, but the Morlocks and X-Men stepped in and defeated Duncan and
his accomplices, who were arrested by the police shortly after the
battle was over. When Storm tried to persuade him once again to return
to the institute, Spyke said the Morlocks needed him more and chose to
remain with them.

He later helped out in destroying the Pyramids surfaced by Apocalypse.
Spyke is last seen in a group photo with the future X-Men, the New
Mutants and their unaffiliated allies. In this photo, he is wearing the
bottom half of his X-Men costume, which may mean he has finally returned
to the X-Men.


Powers and abilities

Spyke can extend or retract bone spikes that grow inside his body. He
may shoot them out or bring them out to grab and hold. He also needs to
drink milk to replace the calcium that he loses when using his
powers. Spyke, an expert skateboarder, integrated his skateboarding
prowess into battles. His body also seals the wounds caused by
projecting his spikes with no visible scarring.

In the later episodes as his mutation evolved, Spyke gained the ability
to heat up the ends of the spikes, increasing their damage potential,
and his strength is almost twice that of an average human. He now also
has protective plates form around his body, but is unable to retract
them. He also gained the ability to extend small spikes on his feet to
scale and stick to walls.


In other media

Other appearances

-   Spyke has appeared in X-Men comic book titles as a young teenager
    named David Munroe, Jr. who has yet to manifest any mutant powers.
    Born in New Jersey to an unknown father and Storm's sister Vivian
    who named him David after Ororo’s father. She later became a drug
    addict and eventually died of HIV, leaving young David in the care
    of his loving grandparents.
-   A version of Spyke appeared in the X-Babies Stars Reborn as an evil,
    indestructible X-Baby.

