SQUIRREL GIRL (DOREEN GREEN) is a fictional superheroine appearing in
American comic books published by . Her first appearance
was in  Super-Heroes vol. 2, #8, a.k.a.  Super-Heroes
Winter Special (cover-dated Jan. 1992), in a story plotted and drawn by
Steve Ditko and scripted by character conceptualizer Will Murray. Her
ability to communicate with squirrels is surprisingly effective and has
allowed her to defeat major supervillains. She joined the Great Lakes
Avengers, and later began serving as nanny to Danielle Cage, the
daughter of Luke Cage and Jessica Jones.

Squirrel Girl's creation arose from Murray wanting to write a
lighthearted superhero story as opposed to the often heavily dramatic
tales that were the norm in mainstream comics at the time.


Publication history

Creation and development

Squirrel Girl was created by writer Will Murray and artist Steve Ditko,
making her debut in "The Coming of ... Squirrel Girl" in 
Super-Heroes vol. 2, #8, a.k.a.  Super-Heroes Winter Special
(cover-date Winter 1991). She ambushes the superhero Iron Man, teams
up with him, and, after Iron Man is captured, defeats the villainous
Doctor Doom. The story also introduces her squirrel sidekick, Monkey
Joe.

Murray has since described the character's genesis;

Later appearances

Squirrel Girl next appeared in  Year-In-Review '92, where she
made a one-panel appearance in the self-satirizing book's  2099
section, where "Squirrel Girl: 2099" was listed as one of "the 2099
books we've pretty much ruled out" as actual future titles. Later, she
was slated to join the New Warriors, but writer Fabian Nicieza left
 before going through with his plan. In 1997 Fleer-Skybox
released cards based on  Superheroes, one of which was a much more
mature version of Squirrel Girl.

Following this, she did not appear again for nearly a decade. She was
referenced only once in comics during that time: In Deadpool #7,
Deadpool's friend/maid/mother-figure/prisoner Blind Al mentions
accidentally putting "bleach in with [Deadpool's] Squirrel Girl
underoos."

In 2005, comic writer Dan Slott wrote a four-issue miniseries for the
superhero team the Great Lakes Avengers. Created in 1989, this team was
made up of enthusiastic heroes with bizarre and nearly useless
abilities. They had appeared only a handful of times over their 16-year
history, serving as comic relief. In commemoration of the team's series,
roster changes were made and the Squirrel Girl character was revived and
included on the team. The miniseries satirized comic book deaths, and it
was announced that a team member would die in every issue. After
Squirrel Girl made a fuss to ensure that Monkey Joe would be an official
member of the team, he was killed in the third issue. Later, she and the
renamed "Great Lakes X-Men" appeared in the GLX-Mas Special, a
Christmas-themed one-shot.

During 2006's Civil War company-wide story arc, Squirrel Girl and the
rest of the team fought Deadpool in Cable & Deadpool #30. In 2007, she
and the newly renamed "Great Lakes Initiative" again appeared alongside
Deadpool in the Deadpool/GLI Summer Fun Spectacular one-shot.

In September 2010's release of I Am An Avenger, a five-part 
Comics story line, Squirrel Girl appears in the first issue in a story
entitled "Welcome Home Squirrel Girl". The premise of the story was
simply Squirrel Girl coming home to Manhattan.

Squirrel Girl appeared as a supporting character sporadically in the
2010-2013 New Avengers series, from issue #7 (February 2011) through
its final issue #34 (January 2013). She is not a member of the team, but
works as a super-powered nanny caring for the daughter of Luke Cage and
Jessica Jones while at the same time attending New York University.

On October 6, 2014,  announced that Squirrel Girl would be
starring in her own series for the first time, titled The Unbeatable
Squirrel Girl, written by Ryan North and drawn by Erica Henderson.
The series' first issue was released on January 7, 2015.

In June 2015, Squirrel Girl was announced as a cast member of the
relaunched New Avengers, part of the All-New, All-Different 
branding. At the 2015 San Diego Comic Con the following month, it was
announced that The Unbeatable Squirrel Girl will also be relaunched,
and will include appearances by the cast of New Avengers.


Fictional character biography

[Squirrel Girl, from her initial appearance.] Doreen Green, a.k.a.
Squirrel Girl, is originally from the Los Angeles, California, area. She
is first seen ambushing Iron Man in a forest, hoping to impress the
veteran hero and become his sidekick. The 14-year-old introduces herself
and her pet squirrel, Monkey Joe, and displays her abilities (all
squirrel-themed). After she rescues Iron Man from Doctor Doom with the
help of a horde of squirrels, Iron Man states that while she is too
young to fight crime, he will put in a good word for her to the Avengers
when she is older.

Great Lakes Avengers

Years later, having relocated to New York City, Doreen encounters a
Great Lakes Avengers membership drive, and joins that superhero team. In
addition to appearing in the team's miniseries, Squirrel Girl introduces
each issue, providing an opinion about the contents of the series. Her
sidekick Monkey Joe also joins the team and comments upon the series as
well. He is later killed by Leather Boy, a rejected GLA member who was
disguised as Doctor Doom. Enraged by the death of her friend, Squirrel
Girl assembles a squirrel army to help stop the villain Maelstrom. She
finds a new squirrel companion during this battle, the only one of her
squirrel army who survived. Doreen names her Tippy-Toe. After receiving
a subpoena from the Avengers and discovering that they were all mutants,
the team decided to rename themselves the Great Lakes X-Men, complete
with new costumes.

During the GLX-Mas Special, Squirrel Girl and Tippy-Toe defeat the
significant supervillains M.O.D.O.K., Terrax, and Thanos. After
defeating M.O.D.O.K., S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Dum Dum Dugan offers to recruit
her, explaining that the organization had been watching her for some
time. Doreen declines the offer, saying she is happy with the Great
Lakes X-Men.

After helping the Thing defeat Bi-Beast, Squirrel Girl was invited to
the annual Superheroes Poker Tournament and brought the team with her.
In the end, Flatman won the tournament with a straight-flush, beating
the Thing's four fours. After being discouraged from using the names
X-Men and Defenders by members of those teams present at the tournament,
and since Flatman was the champion of the tournament, the team was
inspired to rename themselves the Great Lakes Champions, despite
protests from former Champions of Los Angeles member Hercules.

During the Civil War crossover storyline, Squirrel Girl and the Great
Lakes Champions registered under the Superhuman Registration Act, as
revealed when Deadpool mistakenly attempted to apprehend them for
violating the Act, only to be defeated and informed that they had
already registered. Under the Registration Act, Squirrel Girl
remains a member of the again-renamed Great Lakes Initiative.

Squirrel Girl and the GLI, along with Deadpool, are sent on a mission to
save Dionysus after he fell from Mount Olympus and was captured by
A.I.M., who planned to use his powers to cause mental instability on all
the superheroes they consider a threat. After their victory, Squirrel
Girl helps Dionysus back to Olympus and to his own bed to sleep it off.
(It is later revealed that she is a fan of the superhero team the New
Warriors, especially Robbie Baldwin, the hero Speedball, on whom she has
a crush, and the two eventually share a kiss.) While seeking to
travel back in time to prevent Speedball from becoming the guilt-plagued
hero Penance, Squirrel Girl convinces Doctor Doom to let her use a time
machine. The device instead takes her into the year 2099, where she
encounters an alternate, future version of Speedball, whom she
unsuccessfully tries to have return with her to her present day. She
also encounters a future version of Mister Immortal who convinces her to
kick Deadpool out of the team, which she does after returning to her own
time.

During the Secret Invasion storyline, the team confronted a Skrull
disguised as Grasshopper, with help from Gravity and Catwalk. They
later appeared to welcome Gravity as leader of the team, after he was
transferred to Wisconsin by Norman Osborn.

After defeating Fin Fang Foom and finding little support from her
teammates on the again renamed Great Lakes Avengers, whom she believes
have her shoulder most of their work, she exits the group.

New Avengers

When Luke Cage and Jessica Jones seek a nanny for their daughter, they
hire Squirrel Girl. During the Spider-Island storyline, Jessica Jones
calls up Squirrel Girl on the status of her daughter, who realizes that
Danielle gained spider powers. During the Fear Itself storyline,
Squirrel Girl runs to the mansion to pick up Danielle while New York is
attacked by the Thule Society. Upon arriving on the mansion, she manages
to protect Danielle while fighting Thule Society soldiers, with help
from Daredevil, and retreats to the basement to hide.

She later helps the New Avengers fight the Revengers,
H.A.M.M.E.R. and the Dark Avengers. When Luke Cage and Jessica
Jones left the team, Squirrel Girl followed them, as she was still
Danielle's nanny.

She and Tippy Toe have since rejoined the team in the wake of the Secret
Wars (2015 comic book).

The Unbeatable Squirrel Girl

Doreen later begins her college career at Empire State University,
majoring in computer science. Upon arriving, she ends up fighting Kraven
the Hunter, who was lashing out at the local squirrels including Tippy
Toe, whom he caught and was about to kill. She manages to stop him when
she informs him of the existence of sea monsters like Giganto and
challenges him to hunt them. Later, she discovers that Galactus is
heading to Earth to devour it, and she and Tippy-Toe head to the moon to
stop him using Iron Man's armor (which she steals). While on their way
to the moon, they end up encountering Whiplash, who mistook Squirrel
Girl for Iron Man, and defeat him. She and Tippy-Toe surprisingly
befriend Galactus, and afterwards tell him of a planet that could
sustain him even better than the Earth. This planet is devoid of
intelligent life but rich in nuts. He then sends the two back home, and
he leaves the Earth to live another day. When she arrives back home, her
roommate Nancy Whitehead tells her that she has figured out she is a
superhero, but promises not to tell anyone, the two becoming good
friends from all this. Squirrel Girl later defeats Mysterion, who was
attacking Liberty Island with an army of robot dinosaurs. Shortly
thereafter, while attempting to stop Hippo from robbing a bank, she
meets Chipmunk Hunk and Koi Boi, both of whom have the ability to speak
to different animals. Nancy reveals their secret identities (Tomas
Lara-Perez and Ken Shiga, respectively) to her, since she easily
recognized them under their masks. They later encountered a monstrous
Asgardian squirrel god, Ratatoskr, who was causing mayhem on the city by
trash-talking its citizens during their sleep, but was defeated with
help from the male and female Thor and Loki.


Victories

[Doctor Doom's notorious defeat by an army of squirrels. Art by Steve
Ditko.] Following her defeat of Doctor Doom, an ongoing joke depicts
Squirrel Girl repeatedly attaining victory over various villains, some
of whom are considered to be more powerful than she is. Typically, these
victories occur off-panel, though some, like her battles with
Deadpool, MODOK, and Wolverine, are shown. Her victories
often result from her opponent's overconfidence, weakness from an
earlier fight, or creative use of her powers. For example, her defeat of
Bi-Beast: While visiting squirrel friends in Central Park, Squirrel Girl
came across the Thing fighting Bi-Beast. She told the squirrels to
retrieve the smelliest garbage they could find and place it around the
combatants, resulting in everyone having to hold their noses. Bi-Beast
had two heads, and two noses, and had to use both hands to hold his
noses, leaving himself defenseless, allowing the Thing to knock him
out.

Squirrel Girl's defeat of Thanos is an ambiguous one. Uatu the Watcher
was present at the battle and claimed Squirrel Girl defeated the genuine
Thanos and not a clone or copy. Thanos has since claimed he has
perfected a means of creating clones of himself that could fool even
"the most cosmic of beings." Adding to the ambiguity is the fact that
the reveal comes from the mind of a clone whose memory had been
altered.

Squirrel Girl has also saved the world from Galactus, but she does not
technically defeat him (though she tries to harm him when they first
meet). Instead, she befriends Galactus and convinces him not to destroy
the Earth.


Powers, abilities, and equipment

During Squirrel Girl's first encounter with Iron Man, she provided a
detailed demonstration of her powers and abilities: a furry, prehensile
tail roughly 3–4 feet in length, sizable buck teeth, which are strong
enough to chew through wood, and superhuman strength and agility,
enabling her to jump between trees with ease. Her fingers have sharp
claws on them, assisting her with climbing, and she possesses
retractable "knuckle spikes" roughly 2-3 inches in length on each hand.
Most importantly, she is capable of communicating with and understanding
squirrels. Squirrel Girl does not communicate with squirrels
telepathically, instead she has an understanding of their language, and
the ability to speak it. Squirrels have also been depicted as
understanding her when she speaks in English.

Later appearances have revealed additional abilities possessed by
Squirrel Girl including heightened reflexes (which she dubs as 'squirrel
agility') and vision (her eyes have been seen to glow red in low-light
situations) and she has also at times displayed an enhanced sense of
smell. Squirrel Girl has also revealed that her lips taste like
hazelnuts, though this attribute has since been retconned by
Unbeatable Squirrel Girl writer Ryan North. She is also a superb
hand-to-hand combatant capable of taking down Wolverine in a one-to-one
no-claws fight.

Squirrel Girl carries a utility belt comprising multiple pouches that
contain nuts to give as snacks to her squirrel friends. These are known
humorously as her "nut sacks". It was originally unknown whether the
black markings around her eyes are the result of her mutation, or
cosmetically applied to enhance her squirrel-themed appearance (though
they did not appear to smear when she's crying). In New Avengers
Annual #1, she is shown in casual clothes lacking these markings.

Squirrel Girl is also shown carrying a full set of 'Iron Man Vs. Series
battle cards', which she uses to show Dum Dum Dugan how she knows him
(she mentions Dugan has a 'defense stat of 8'; her own is 6, although
the rating system is left unclear). After MODOK is pointed out to her,
she consults the supervillain's own card to confirm his abilities. The
printing on the two cards shown (Dugan's and MODOK's) is actually
gibberish.

In the GLX-Mas Special, she is shown flying a small gyrocopter called
a 'Squirrel-A-Gig' and mentions it was a gift from GLA teammate Big
Bertha. This reappears in Deadpool/GLI Summer Fun Spectacular, used as
a way of infiltrating Doctor Doom's castle. The first version was a
standard gyrocopter, while it is later shown as a more stylized
superhero helicopter (including squirrel-styled bodywork). Squirrel Girl
is shown as being able to fly the craft expertly, including through the
anti-aircraft defenses surrounding Castle Doom, crediting this to her
'squirrel-agility'.

In The Unbeatable Squirrel Girl, she also temporarily obtains a set of
armor based on pieces of Iron Man's modular armor that reshapes to fit
her, including her tail. The same series also retcons her status as
a mutant, noting that her powers are the result of an unspecified
"something" relating to her RNA or DNA, and that she is "medically and
legally distinct from being a mutant."


Squirrels

Squirrel Girl is always accompanied by one or more squirrels. Two of
these, Monkey Joe and later his successor Tippy-Toe, have been her
constant companion. At her insistence, they have each been accepted as a
full member of the Great Lakes Avengers.

In addition to Monkey Joe and Tippy-Toe, Squirrel Girl named several
other squirrels in Great Lakes Avengers #4. Slippy Pete, Mr. Freckle,
and Nutso are presumed dead; they were sucked into the singularity
created by Maelstrom.

Monkey Joe

[Monkey Joe as he appeared as a commentator for the Great Lakes
Avengers miniseries] Monkey Joe appeared in Squirrel Girl's original
appearance in  Super-Heroes Special vol. 2 #8, and all four
issues of the Great Lakes Avengers miniseries.

The trade paperback of the Great Lakes Avengers miniseries contains a
dedication to the memory of Monkey Joe: "Monkey Joe 1992-2005. He loved
nuts. He will be missed."

Alongside Squirrel Girl, Monkey Joe helped her to defeat Doctor Doom.
Shortly after Squirrel Girl joined the Great Lakes Avengers, Monkey Joe
met his demise at the hands of Leather Boy, an ex-G.L.A. member who had
been rejected by the team due to his lack of powers, and who dispatched
the squirrel while dressed in a variation of Doctor Doom's costume.
Monkey Joe's death was part of the series' promise that a member of the
G.L.A. would die in each issue of the miniseries, in a parody of comic
book deaths.

Monkey Joe was smarter than an average squirrel, even proving adept in
the use of computers. He served as the sardonic commentator on the
Great Lakes Avengers miniseries, appearing alongside the story titles
holding signs with humorous, often sarcastic, remarks on the events.
After his death, the narrator circle showed a deceased Monkey Joe,
complete with flies circling the corpse. Reappearing in the narrator
circle, he possessed a halo.

When Doorman visited the afterlife, he met Monkey Joe, who was playing
cards with the rest of the fallen G.L.A. members.

Tippy-Toe

[Tippy-Toe
Art by Paul Pelletier] After the death of Monkey Joe, Squirrel Girl
found a new companion, a female squirrel whom she named Tippy-Toe and
provided with a pink bow. Tippy-Toe replicates Monkey Joe's role as
Squirrel Girl's sidekick almost exactly. Though apparently less
intelligent than Monkey Joe, Tippy-Toe may in fact be smarter than she
lets on and has proved her worth in short order.

A member of the squirrel army summoned by Squirrel Girl to join the
fight against Maelstrom and Batroc's Brigade, Tippy-Toe was the only
squirrel Doreen was able to save from Maelstrom's Cosmic Crunch
device. Squirrel Girl also briefly considered the name Monkey Joe 2
for her.

Tippy-Toe accompanied and assisted Squirrel Girl in defeating MODOK and
Thanos (she scratched MODOK's face, then entered his exo-chair and
disabled it). Squirrel Girl left Tippy-Toe behind when she went to fight
Terrax, and the squirrel was targeted by Deathurge, who sought vengeance
for being stranded on Earth and trapped in squirrel form. However,
Tippy-Toe managed to trick Deathurge and defeat him, with help from Mr.
Immortal. During the Civil War story arc, Tippy-Toe joined the Great
Lakes Champions in siding with Iron Man's pro-Superhuman Registration
group.

Tippy-Toe is able to understand her teammate's comments, complaining
when Doorman discounts her as a viable teammate for a mission. She has
also been seen using tools that a squirrel wouldn't normally be able to
use such as being able to wield a screwdriver and operate a blender
which Mr. Immortal complains to Squirrel Girl about Tippy-Toe whipping
up acorn smoothies that keep compromising the machine.


Other versions

 Zombies

A zombified Squirrel Girl along with her 'Squirrel-A-Gig' make an
appearance in  Zombies: Evil Evolution. The severed zombified
head of Mr. Fantastic comments, "There's a zombie Squirrel Girl? Now
that's scary!"

Avengers vs. X-Men

Squirrel Girl makes an appearance in a bonus story of Avengers vs.
X-Men: Versus #6. Here she is depicted competing against Pixie in a
game resembling HeroClix where the toys are based on various
superheroes. Thing walks in, stopping the game to reveal that the
figurines actually belong to the Puppet Master and are made out of his
"Mind Control Clay". The next day, Squirrel Girl and Pixie read in the
Daily Bugle that the clash between the Avengers and X-Men has occurred
and have been mirroring the results from their game, implying that they
were the cause of the feud.

 Universe Vs. The Avengers

Squirrel Girl and Jessica Jones are killed by Luke Cage after he
succumbs to the Survivor 118, a virus that causes those infected by it
to be become feral to the point of engaging in cannibalism.


In other media

Television

[Squirrel Girl auditions for the Fantastic Four, in the 2006 cartoon
series.]

-   Squirrel Girl made a brief appearance (in a modified costume) in the
    2006 Fantastic Four cartoon series episode titled "The Cure". In the
    episode, the Thing had been "cured" of his condition, and the team
    was holding auditions for potential replacements (including Flatman,
    Texas Twister, Captain Ultra, and eventual winner She-Hulk).
    Squirrel Girl's audition consisted of her sliding into the center of
    the audition area and shouting, "Ta-da!", with her squirrels both
    accompanying her and swarming the table at which the Fantastic Four
    were sitting. She was immediately rejected.
-   Squirrel Girl appears in the third season of the Ultimate
    Spider-Man series, voiced by Misty Lee. In the episode "Agent
    Venom", she can be seen as one of the young superheroes that
    S.H.I.E.L.D. is monitoring. In the episode "The Next Iron Spider",
    she appears at the beginning defeating Juggernaut with her
    squirrel army. Her squirrels Tippy-Toe and Monkey Joe also appear.
    In the episode "S.H.I.E.L.D. Academy", she's seen as a student at
    the Triskelion's S.H.I.E.L.D. Academy. In the episode "Burrito Run",
    Squirrel Girl sneaks out after hours for late-night burritos with
    Spider-Man and Power Man and along the way they must contend with
    some of Spider-Man's enemies. In the episode "Nightmare on
    Christmas", she appears in a S.H.I.E.L.D. base hibernating with her
    squirrels when Spider-Man comes in and asks her where his
    teammates are.

Film

-   Guardians of the Galaxy director James Gunn has expressed interest
    in directing a Squirrel Girl movie.

Video games

-   Squirrel Girl is a playable character in the games  Super
    Hero Squad: Comic Combat,  Super Hero Squad Online,
     Heroes, and Lego  Super Heroes, voiced
    by Tara Strong.
-   Squirrel Girl is an unlockable character in : Avengers
    Alliance.
-   Squirrel Girl appears as a playable character in Lego 's
    Avengers.


Reception

Writer Brian Michael Bendis mentioned the popularity that Squirrel Girl
has among writers as a factor in the unanimous decision to use her in
the role of the nanny in "New Avengers". After announcing the character
at the 2010 Comic-con panel, Bendis described the audience's reaction:
"[it] was so loud, the applause went on for so long... the place went
nuts for a while." He described the applause as comparable to that
received by Stan Lee when he entered the room.

Co-creator Will Murray has expressed interest in returning to the
character: "I’ve been thinking of pitching  a Squirrel Girl
project. She’s defeated most of the major  super villains. It’s
time she met her match in The Ultimate Pistachio." 's previous
editor-in-chief Joe Quesada joked, "I've always wanted to do a Squirrel
Girl miniseries or a Squirrel Girl event – 'Squirrel Girl Destroys Your
Nuts!'... I haven't been able to sell it yet, but I keep on trying."

UGO Networks listed Squirrel Girl as one of their "Women We're Ashamed
to Be Attracted To" and put Squirrel Girl as one of the more
questionable D-list superheroes that they still loved anyway.
GameZone's Ben Perlee has stated that Squirrel Girl was one of the
characters he'd want to see in  vs. Capcom 3 as downloadable
content.

IGN has reacted positively to her appearance in the more mainstream New
Avengers comic, claiming, "issue  goes a long way towards painting
her as a more fleshed out human being with real desires. Bendis hasn't
quite found a truly unique voice for her yet, but regardless, it's nice
to see her offering something more than comic relief."

