STARFOX (EROS OF TITAN) is a fictional superhero appearing in American
comic books published by . He has operated as a member of
the Avengers and is one of the Eternals of Titan. Where Eros serves as
the superhero Starfox, he (and the universe) is opposed by his mad
brother, the supervillain Thanos.


Publication history

Starfox first appeared in Iron Man #55 (February 1973), scripted by
Mike Friedrich with story and illustration by Jim Starlin.


Fictional character biography

Eros is a member of the Eternals, a genetic offshoot of humanity, that
left for deep space from Earth years ago and settled on Saturn's moon of
Titan. Eros is the youngest son of A'lars (also known as Mentor) and
Sui-San, and he grew up on Titan to be a fun-loving, carefree womanizer
and adventurer in contrast to his brother Thanos, a power-hungry,
nihilistic conqueror. Only when Thanos launched his first major attack
on Titan did Eros begin to take life a bit more seriously.

Years later, in a subsequent campaign of terror by Thanos, Eros fought
alongside Titan's handful of survivors. Eros joined the alien Captain
Mar-Vell in battling Thanos's minions. Eros was held captive by
Thanos, who revealed that he had killed their mother. Eros was freed
from captivity and met Iron Man and Moondragon, and assisted Mar-Vell
and the Earth hero-team called the Avengers in the first major defeat of
Thanos. Eros later met Pip the Troll, and his relationship with
Heater Delight was revealed. Eros was later held captive by ISAAC,
but was eventually freed. No longer bound by duty on Titan, Eros left
the war-torn moon, seeking out pleasure and recreation on
humanoid-inhabited worlds.

Eros returned to Titan to help console his cancer-stricken friend
Mar-Vell when he retreated to Titan to spend his final days. Just before
he died, Mar-Vell made Eros promise to take care of his Titanian
companion, Elysius, after he was gone. Eros honored his vow for
several weeks, until Elysius, realizing his wanderlust, released him
from his promise. He left Titan and Elysius for Earth. He arrived on
Earth, where he sought out and joined the Avengers as a trainee. They
admitted him to their training program and the Wasp gave him the name
Starfox, since they felt Eros was an inappropriate code-name. He then
went on his first mission with the team, against Annihilus. He
helped the Avengers vanquish the Wizard. He helped resuscitate the
Vision with the help of ISAAC, and was later made a full
Avenger. While on the team he had his first meeting with the Earth
Eternals. Eventually, he revealed his pleasure-stimulating powers to
the assembled Avengers, and helped them defeat Maelstrom. He
traveled to another dimension with Spider-Man. He then helped the
Avengers defeat Terminus. He battled the space pirate Nebula, and
learned of her claim to be the granddaughter of Thanos. He left the
Avengers with Firelord to pursue Nebula. He eventually encountered
and was defeated by the Xandarian villain Supernova who blamed Nebula
for the destruction of his homeworld. Eventually he found
Nebula. He was held captive by Nebula, but freed himself, and
assisted the Avengers and the Stranger against Nebula.

Eros returned to a hedonistic life of adventure, preferring to wander
space in search of romance and adventure. He would often return to help
the Avengers in their adventures, serving during such cases as the
Terminus crisis, Operation: Galactic Storm, and the Nemesis case
involving the Infinity Gems and the so-called Ultraverse. When Thanos
had gained the Infinity Gauntlet, one of the first things he did was
capture Starfox and place him under various torments. Starfox was forced
to witness various cosmic murders, power plays, the personal deaths of
heroes he knew and other atrocities. He did attempt to charm Thanos out
of his plan but had his mouth neutralized for his effort.

Starfox spent time with the son of Mar-Vell, Genis-Vell, and attempted
on multiple occasions to assist him and steer him in the right
direction. Once, he came up with a device that would block telepathic
transmissions during sexual activity.

Starfox was part of a re-gathering of Avengers when Morgan LeFay
attacked all current and ex- members. After an adventure in an alternate
universe, Starfox left Earth with Tigra, planning to head towards a
known pleasure planet.

Eros and his brother, Thanos, have a custom, where each Eternal year
(Eternal year = 1000 Earth years) they bury the hatchet and convene at a
neutral place, usually bearing gifts. This was an initiative of their
father, who demanded that the two would meet every year as a reminder of
the blood that runs through both their veins. The meeting is called The
Truce and the two meet alone, although the hero Quasar was present at
one of their meetings, and they refuse to fight one another.

Allegations of sexual assault

Starfox was put on trial for sexual assault, accused of using his powers
to seduce a happily married woman. He was defended by lawyer Jennifer
Walters, the She-Hulk. The law firm which employed her, Goodman, Lieber,
Kurtzberg & Holliway, was contracted by Mentor to defend his son from
the allegations. In the course of the trial, Ms. Walters came to suspect
that Starfox had used his powers on her during their time in the
Avengers, resulting in a brief sexual interaction. By this time, Starfox
had been banned from the courtroom after it was determined that he was
using his special abilities to influence the witnesses. When Jennifer
Walters confronted Starfox with her suspicions via closed-circuit video
link, he evaded her questions and then cut the video feed. Walters
angrily charged out of the courtroom, transformed into She-Hulk, and
caught Starfox as he was attempting to escape from Earth. She-Hulk dealt
Starfox a savage beating, giving him no chance to defend his actions,
knocked him unconscious, finally duct-taping his mouth shut to ensure
that he could not use his abilities to elude punishment. However,
Mentor, Starfox's father, effected his son's release by teleporting
Starfox away to Titan.

Mentor eventually staged a native Titanian trial in the hopes of
clearing his son's name. The Living Tribunal, interested in the equity
of the process, called on She-Hulk as prosecuting attorney. Jennifer
Walters, in an attempt to get to the bottom of the matter, agreed to a
mind probe of both Starfox and herself. She discovered that Starfox did
not use his abilities to influence her decision to sleep with him, but
that he was deliberately responsible for her sudden infatuation with and
marriage to John Jameson. An enraged She-Hulk once more lashed out at
Starfox for toying with her life, bringing the legal proceedings to a
halt.

Thanos now appeared at the trial, and testified that his brother Starfox
inspired his obsession with Death when they were children, when
attempting to make young Thanos accept the death of an animal he had
involuntarily killed with his enormous strength. By Titanian law Eros
would thus take full responsibility for all the genocides Thanos had
later committed. In the following issue it was revealed that this was a
false memory that Thanos implanted into Starfox's mind, and shared by a
Thanos clone which the real Thanos sent. Thanos' implantation of the
memory is what caused Starfox to briefly become mentally unbalanced, and
use his power in this manner for the first time. Starfox agreed to have
Moondragon shut them off completely rather than risk hurting more
people.

Return

Starfox is later seen living on Titan again, with his abilities
restored. He is shown flirting with a number of women, but states that
he will not use his powers to woo them. Ultron soon attacks Titan and
assimilates the entire population (including Mentor) via a robotic
virus, transforming the moon into Planet Ultron. Starfox flees to Earth
and meets with the current team of Avengers (now led by the new Captain
America), and teams up with them to liberate his world. He plays a key
role in the Avengers' victory, using his powers on the half-organic
Ultron to force the villain to have an emotional breakdown.


Powers and abilities

Starfox is a member of the long-lived offshoot of humanity known as the
Eternals. His body has been enhanced by cosmic energy to the point that
it ages far more slowly than most humanoids and is superhumanly strong
and resistant to harm and immune to terrestrial diseases. He can
withstand impacts, such as falling from several stories or being
repeatedly struck with superhuman force, that would severely injure or
kill an ordinary human being with little to no injury to himself.
However, he is far from invulnerable and can be injured by weapons, such
as bullets or knives, composed of conventional materials. His overall
resistance to injury is somewhat lower than that of the average Eternal
but, like any Eternal, he possesses exceptional healing capabilities
and, as previously mentioned, an immunity against any terrestrial
diseases. He can harness his cosmic powers to enable himself to fly at
subsonic speed and through to the gravimetric potential of his body,
related to his ability to fly, a tiny shell of air constantly clings to
his body and while he needs to breathe like a normal human, however with
a somewhat reduced need of oxygen and the capability to hold his breath
for quite some time, enables him to survive the rigors of open space and
underwater travel otherwise unaided.

Starfox can psionically stimulate the pleasure centers in nearby
people's brains, making them calm and open to suggestion using his
persuasion skill. It has been suggested that when in physical contact,
and there is direct line of sight between the subject and the target,
Starfox can use this euphoria effect to cause a person or persons to
become infatuated with him, objects, or people of his choosing or simply
to make others feel good while in his presence. Notably, the euphoria
power does not work on his brother Thanos. His psionic powers are
possessed to some degree by all Eternals, but he developed them in his
own unique manner. Starfox's mental powers do not work on beings whose
brains do not have pleasure centers. These powers were later shut off at
Eros' request to prevent them from being abused.

In the series Captain , Starfox also showed the ability to
manipulate gravity, simulating psychokinesis. Starfox has limited
mastery of 500 extraterrestrial languages.

Though an Eternal, Starfox isn't as powerful as his Earthborn cousins
because the original Titanian Eternals separated from their Earth
brethren before Kronos' experiments augmented the Eternals' energies.
Starfox, at least, can join an existing Uni-Mind with the other
Eternals, even though Titanian Eternals have thus far proven unable
to form their own.


Other versions

 Zombies

A zombified Starfox appears in  Zombies vs. The Army Of
Darkness, alongside Hercules, She-Hulk, and Firestar, each of them
infected. He is actually infected by the zombie Avengers when they sent
out a bogus "Avengers Assemble" message and he is unaware it was really
a trap.

