STARHAWK (STAKAR OF THE HOUSE OF OGORD) is a fictional character
appearing in American comic books published by . He was
created by Steve Gerber (writer) and Sal Buscema (artist). He is an
antihero in the Earth-691 timeline of the  universe.

Stakar was fated to eventually re-inhabit his infant body, reliving his
life over countless times. Because of the knowledge of things to come,
he manipulated events to affect what he felt would be the best outcome,
referring to himself as "ONE WHO KNOWS". He made many enemies in doing
so, but his tampering and guidance also led to the formation of the
Guardians of the Galaxy in the 31st Century.

Upon receiving his power from the Hawk God, Starhawk identified himself
and summarized his purpose by saying "I am the wisdom and the glory of
your ancestors. I am the light and the giver of light. I am your
heritage and your destiny! I am the POWER that was Arcturus!"


Publication history

A character called Starhawk appeared in an advertisement on the last
page of  Super-Heroes #20 (May, 1969) as the feature that would
appear in the next issue. That next issue, though, and all subsequent
issues of the title, were reprints of older  material. The unused
cover of the Starhawk feature from  Super-Heroes was used as the
cover of the third issue of mania, 's in-house fanzine,
and the first part of the unused story itself, by Roy Thomas and Dan
Adkins, was printed in mania #6. Though the serialization was to
continue in the next issue, the title was cancelled before that
happened.

The in-continuity Starhawk first appeared in The Defenders #27 (Sep
1975), and was created by Steve Gerber and Sal Buscema. It is unclear
whether this Starhawk has any connection to the  Super-Heroes
character.

Starhawk appeared along with the rest of the original Guardians of the
Galaxy team in the 2014 series Guardians 3000. Writer Dan Abnett
described him as "the soul" of the team.


Fictional character biography

Origin

A male child was born to the superheroes Quasar and Kismet in the about
the year 2002 of the Earth-691 timeline. As such, he was half human
and half-artificially created being. Just as soon as he was born on the
planet Vesper, he was kidnapped and deposited on the planet Arcturus IV.
The baby was discovered by an Arcturian couple who were among the last
of their planet's mutants; for much of his life, Stakar would believe
that these mutants were his birth parents. The mutants were found and
slain by the Reavers of Arcturus, Arcturian military cadres dedicated to
eradicating the mutants of their race. The Reaver Ogord discovered the
infant and, assuming him to be a normal Arcturian, adopted the child and
raised it as his own with his wife Salaan, naming the boy Stakar.

Stakar cultivated an interest in science and archaeology and explored
ruins containing the Hawk God. Around the year 2020, he and his
adoptive sister Aleta Ogord reanimated the dormant deity and were
physically transformed. They took turns occupying the same physical
space, while the other stayed in a type of "limbo". They were given
extraordinary power and left Arcturus IV for the stars; when dominant,
Stakar adopted the costumed identity of Starhawk. Developing romantic
feelings for one another, Stakar and Aleta petitioned the Hawk God to
temporarily separate them. During this time, they had three children
together: Sita, John and Tara.

Guardians of the Galaxy

As an adventurer and protector, Starhawk revealed himself to the
Guardians of the Galaxy and the Defenders in the year 3014. He aided
them in overthrowing the Badoon occupation of Earth. Starhawk joined
the Guardians of the Galaxy in a space mission, and helped defeat the
Topographical Man. It is later revealed he manipulated events to
bring the Guardians together; for example, when Charlie-27 teleported
from Jupiter to escape the Badoon, Starhawk caused him to be transported
to Pluto where he met Martinex.

During this time, Stakar's three children (Tara, John and Sita) were
changed into energy vampires by Aleta's father and sent to kill Stakar.
They died of accelerated old age. Aleta thereafter blamed Stakar (rather
than her father) for the deaths of their children, and their
relationship never recovered.

Starhawk teamed with the time-traveling Thor, and battled Korvac and his
Minions of Menace. Starhawk later traveled to the 1970s alongside
his fellow Guardians, and assisted the Avengers in battle against
Korvac. Alongside the Guardians, the Fantastic Four, Dargo, and
Keeper, Starhawk battled manifestations of Korvac's power in various
eras.

In 3017, Starhawk accompanied the Guardians on a quest to find the lost
shield of Captain America. He battled Taserface and the Stark, and was
physically separated from Aleta in an accident. Aleta was the
stronger of the pair, and Stakar forcibly reabsorbed her to sustain
himself. The two struggled for dominance of their physical space, and
Stakar metemorphosed into a 'dark' version of himself, projecting 'black
light'.

Because of Stakar's assault on their teammate, the Guardians chose to
expel him from the team. Eventually, Aleta became dominant, and reverted
Stakar's body to an infant state. Aware of his destiny, she sent him
back in time to begin his life cycle again.

Freed from rebirth

When the Guardians traveled back in time to the 20th century of
Earth-616, their native timeline was altered - to the extent that
Starhawk had lived his entire life over again and was waiting for their
arrival. Stakar and Aleta had harsh words for each other, and the Hawk
God appeared and intervened, attaching the two ex-lovers by bonding
their fingers together. After being forced to work together for a
time, the Hawk God again granted them audience, allowing them to plead
their cases. He separated them and allowed only Stakar to retain his
power, while Aleta was given back her former power to manipulate
light.

Aleta then chose to stay with the Guardians, while the Hawk God told
Stakar the truth about his ancestry. He then went on a quest to
learn more. During this quest he found the wounded Silver Surfer, whom
he healed and equipped his Quantum Bands for a short time. Eon then
reveals to Stakar that his biological father Quasar once wore the bands.
Starhawk is then consumed by Abrogate, a place where all former
Quantum-Band wielders go after death. Quasar tells him about his lover
and Stakar's mother Kismet. Stakar finds her alive and living in a
secluded religious retreat on the planet Vesper. After that, a
creature who called himself Era, the son of Eon, revealed himself. It
admitted having kidnapped Stakar at birth, along with other vile
deeds.

With the encouragement of the Hawk God, Starhawk and Kismet dedicated
themselves to locating and confronting Era.

[Starhawk as a female. From Guardians of the Galaxy vol. 2, #5
(November 2008), art by Paul Pelletier.]

Return

Using some technology from his timeline, Starhawk teleports himself into
the 21st century of the Earth-616 timeline, to meet up with that era's
equivalent of the Guardians of the Galaxy on Knowhere. Vance Astro, aka
Major Victory, was found by this new squad of Guardians, and Starhawk
fights him before teleporting away. Starhawk again ventures to
Knowhere, but this time appears as a woman. Claiming that there are not
meant to be Guardians of the Galaxy at this point in the timeline, and
that Major Victory's appearance there has put the entire future in flux,
she again attempts to kill Astro and the Guardians. She is detained
by the Guardians, and held captive for a time, until Moondragon
released her. She discovers that the anomaly that is disturbing the
time stream is not Astro or the Guardians, but instead Black Bolt
activating a bomb that will cause time and space to collapse. Starhawk
sacrifices her life to save the Guardians, and instructs Star-Lord to
stop Black Bolt, at any cost.


Powers and abilities

The true extent of Starhawk's powers is unknown, but they are said to be
immense in nature. He has an incredibly long lifespan, possibly
inherited from his mother or due to his empowerment by the Hawk God.

Starhawk can manipulate light to create concussive force blasts of
photonic energy, heat, and solid-light constructs. He can also fly at
the speed of light by tapping anti-gravitons, and survive in the vacuum
of space. By tapping into Aleta's powers (when merged with her), he can
also generate solid constructs of light; it is unknown if he can do so
since their separation. His natural senses, especially eyesight, are
enhanced to a superhuman degree; in addition, his powers give him
extrasensory sensitivity to energy patterns and fluctuations in his
environment, and he can track energy trails across intergalactic
distances.

He has superhuman strength and durability, and he can enhance these
further by reinforcing his body with light energy; on one occasion, he
was able to engage in hand-to-hand combat with the thunder god Thor. He
has an immunity to most known diseases and radiation sickness.

He seemingly has precognition, designating himself as "One-Who-Knows",
but this is actually an effect of remembering what happened in his
previous life cycle. However, due to Starhawk's efforts to change events
for the better in each cycle, as well as the manipulations of beings
with greater understanding of the universe (such as Mephisto), these
memories can become unreliable; the overall thrust of events may be the
same, but vital details might differ from his previous incarnation.

When he forced Aleta to re-merge with him after their second separation,
Starhawk's power changed from light to dark, and he was able to create
constructs out of solid darkness, and fire blasts of shadowy force.
Valentino had initially decided to call him Shadowhawk, but Tom DeFalco
convinced him to save the name for a brand new character.

Stakar has knowledge of the archaeology of the planet Arcturus IV. He
also has extensive knowledge of various civilizations throughout the
Milky Way Galaxy.

His costume is made of alien materials, including a retracting
transparent facemask and life support system, and retractable solar wind
collector wings.

