STARBOLT (sometimes known as BOLT) is a fictional character appearing in
American comic books published by . The character is
usually depicted as a member of the Shi'ar Imperial Guard, and first
appeared in Uncanny X-Men #107. He acts as an enforcer of law in the
Shi'ar Empire and is part of the royal guard.


Fictional character biography

[Starbolt in a panel from Uncanny X-Men vol.1 #157 (May, 1982). Art by
Dave Cockrum.]

Starbolt is a warrior serving in the Royal Elite of the Shi'ar Imperial
Guard, a multi-ethnic group of super-powered alien beings who act as
enforcers of the laws of the Shi'ar Empire. Part of the division of the
Imperial Guard known as the Superguardians, Starbolt was amongst the
first of the Imperial Guard encountered by the team of superhuman mutant
adventurers known as the X-Men who sought to rescue the
Princess-Majestrix Lilandra from her insane brother, then-Majestor
D'ken. Following the orders of their emperor, the Guard clashed with the
X-Men on a nameless Shi'ar Empire planet and was on the verge of winning
when the band of interstellar freebooters known as the Starjammers
arrived to turn the tide of battle in the X-Men's favor. During the
clash, Starbolt became enraged when he saw the feral X-Man Wolverine
attacking his teammate and then-lover Oracle. After Starbolt flash-fried
him, Wolverine quickly took the two lovers out of the fight by slamming
them into each other.

Deathbolt is featured prominently in an adventure set early in his
career; the Guard and the current ruler of the Shi'ar empire are set
upon by Skrull assassins and are rescued by the hero later known as
Captain .

Starbolt was also one of eight Imperial Guardsmen chosen to battle the
X-Men in a trial by combat over the fate of Phoenix, a primal force of
the cosmos that had assumed the form of the X-Man Jean Grey.

Soon after, Starbolt was amongst those few Imperial Guard members who
opposed the treacherous Shi'ar High Council member Lord Samédàr who was
aiding an attempted coup of the Shi'ar throne by Deathbird. Even after
many of the Guard chose to side with Samédàr, Starbolt remained
steadfast in his loyalty to then-Empress Lilandra.These Imperial Guard
members went on a mission to find Lilandra, and joined with Nightcrawler
and Kitty Pryde in battling Samédàr's renegade Imperial Guardsmen.
Starbolt was captured, but was freed on Lilandra's command.

Later, after the formerly-exiled Deathbird had usurped the Shi'ar
throne, Starbolt was amongst those Imperial Guard members who clashed
with the British team of costumed adventurers known as Excalibur and the
Starjammers over the fate of the then-bearer of the cosmic Phoenix
Force, the alternate future daughter of Jean Grey named Rachel Summers.

Much later, the intergalactic teleporter Lila Cheney transported the
X-Men to the Shi'ar Empire at the behest of then-Empress Deathbird. On
Deathbird's behalf, Starbolt and the Imperial Guardsmen battled the
X-Men and Starjammers, but the X-Men had arrived in Shi'ar space just in
time to see Lilandra regain her throne. Not all was as it seemed,
however, as in reality a group of Warskrulls, using technology to allow
them to duplicate superpowers, had captured and impersonated the X-Men's
founder, the telepathic Professor Charles Xavier, using his telepathy to
control Lilandra and the Imperial Guard, including Starbolt. After the
ruse was discovered by the X-Men and all the Warskrull impostors were
exposed, Lilandra settled matters with Deathbird, discovering her sister
did not want the throne anymore.

During the war between the Shi'ar and Kree Empires, Starbolt was part of
a small team of Guardsmen who were charged with preventing the member of
the Earth team of super-powered beings known as the Avengers named
Quasar from retrieving the legendary Nega-Bands of the Kree warrior
Captain , which had been stolen. Starbolt battled Quasar and Her
in space during the Kree-Shi'ar War, although Starbolt was defeated and
captured by Quasar.

Subsequently, Starbolt was amongst those Imperial Guard members who
defended Lilandra against an assassination attempt by the Kree Ronan the
Accuser and his unwilling agents, the royal family of the Earth race
known as the Inhumans. He survived the Imperial Guard's battle with
Vulcan.

He was one of the view selected to explore 'the Fault', but was killed
by a creature in the Fault during 'Realm of Kings'.


Powers and abilities

Starbolt is an alien whose entire body is composed of an unknown form of
ultra-energy that resembles fire, and whose head is perpetually engulfed
in a plume of the same unknown energy. As a result, Starbolt is able to
channel this energy into producing heat and light, resembling flames
from all portions of his body without harm to himself. He can fire
powerful bolts of this concussive force energy from his hands. He has
the ability to generate plasma, which can be mentally controlled by him.
The temperature of the plasma ranges from 200 degrees to over 1,000,000
degrees. Starbolt cannot be injured by fire, plasma, heat, or radiation,
and can survive unprotected in the vacuum of outer space. Using fire and
air currents with his ability of self-levitations, he can fly at super
sonic speeds (600 to 1,000 mph). Starbolt's "flames" do not require the
presence of oxygen, and can exist in the vacuum of space.


Other media

Television

-   In the X-Men Animated Series, Starbolt appears in The Phoenix
    Saga and The Dark Phoenix Saga alongside the rest of the
    Imperial Guard.

Video games

-   Starbolt appeared as a boss in the video game : Ultimate
    Alliance, voiced by Beau Weaver. He aids Deathbird in staging a
    Coup d'état against Lilandra and fights the heroes alongside
    Warstar.


Inspiration

Several of the members of the Imperial Guard are at least partly based
on members of the  team Legion of Super-Heroes. (Dave Cockrum,
co-creator of the Guard, also had a long run as artist on the Legion.)
Starbolt appears to be a homage to LSH member Wildfire.

