STEEL SPIDER (OLIVER "OLLIE" OSNICK) is a fictional character, a
superhero who appears in the comic books published by ,
primarily in the various Spider-Man titles.


Fictional character biography

Origin

[Ollie Osnick makes his debut as Spider-Kid in Amazing Spider-Man
#263. Art by Ron Frenz.] Ollie Osnick is an overweight, gifted teenager
who idolized Doctor Octopus. Using his genius, Ollie designs his own
mechanical tentacles and calls himself KID OCK. He influences a group of
kids to dress up as super-villains, but they soon ran out on him. Ollie
eventually runs away from home and breaks into a toy store.

There, he renders an elderly guard unconscious, although Ollie believes
he has killed him. When Spider-Man arrives on the scene, he believes
that it was actually Dr. Octopus at work, so he chases Ollie.
Fortunately Spider-Man realizes in time that it was not Ock he was
facing. When Spider-Man and Ollie fall into a water tank, Spider-Man
easily rips apart a tentacle, something that he was never able to do
with Ock. Dragging Ollie to the surface, he learns it was actually Ollie
he was chasing. By then the guard regains consciousness, and Spider-Man
returns Ollie home safely.

Impressed with Spider-Man, Ollie modifies his tentacles into spider-legs
and dons a Spider-Man Halloween costume, calling himself the SPIDER-KID.
Ollie's heroic activities often resulted in him having to be saved by
Spider-Man. He was involved (along with Frog-Man and the Toad) in a
short-lived super-hero team called The Misfits. Ollie was eventually
convinced to hang up his costume and became a normal child.

However, in his college years, Ollie had radically changed. He had
devoted himself to exercise and became very athletic. Ollie still
fantasized about being a hero, continuing to invent new weapons and
modify his spider-legs. When his girlfriend was paralyzed by muggers,
Ollie seeks revenge and creates the identity of "Steel Spider", donning
a dark blue costume, and equipping himself with all of these new weapons
(including gauntlets containing a grappling hook launcher and pepper
spray blasters). Steel Spider locates and brutalizes his girlfriend's
attackers. He removes his costume, realizing that he never wanted to be
a vigilante and would rather build a life with the girl he loves.

When Onslaught attacks New York City, he is mentioned to be one of the
heroes helping against the invading Sentinels, working with Darkhawk and
the New Warriors to retake the Brooklyn Bridge.

Civil War

Equipped with a new set of arms, Ollie Osnick now displays a more
rebellious attitude towards the Superhero Registration Act. As an
unregistered superhero, Ollie becomes a target for the government's
Thunderbolts team. Mention of his name also causes Thunderbolts director
Norman Osborn to collapse into fits of laughter, as it reminds him of
Spider-Man. After having beaten several drunken misfits, Ollie
becomes afraid of the government sponsored Thunderbolts.

Ollie fights the Thunderbolts, and is joined in his battle by
American Eagle and Sepulchre. After successfully defeating Venom,
Radioactive Man, and the new Swordsman, he uses the gadgetry in his
metal limbs to square up against Radioactive Man, Songbird, Venom and
Penance, commenting that having allies "almost makes this a fair fight.
I bet they weren't expecting that." As the fight continues, Ollie seems
to be holding his own until Venom unexpectedly bites off Ollie's left
arm and eats it. Ollie is later shown being incarcerated in Prison 42
in the Negative Zone.


Powers and abilities

Ollie Osnick has no superpowers but he wears mechanical spider legs
which allow him to climb. He also wears gauntlets that contain a
grappling hook launcher and pepper spray blasters. He's also a gifted
inventor with a genius-level intellect.


Other versions

MC2

[The Steel Spider in the MC2 timeline.] In the MC2 continuity, Ollie
Osnick never quits being Steel Spider and is even a member of the
Avengers. He modifies his costume into a powerful exoskeleton and
becomes a highly respected superhero. However, when his personal life
fails and his wife leaves him, Steel Spider goes looking for criminals
to take out his frustrations. However, the crooks he finds are so afraid
of him they surrender without a fight. Steel Spider has a tantrum, until
he sees that he is being watched by Spider-Girl and American Dream. They
tell him how much of an inspiration he had been to them, and he helps
them defeat a terrorist cell called "the Sons of the Serpent". After
this, he sets about rebuilding his shattered personal life.


In other media

Television

-   A version of Spider-Man that is similar to Steel Spider had a brief
    appearance in the 1994 Spider-Man animated series finale "I
    Really, Really Hate Clones", voiced by Christopher Daniel Barnes.
    This incarnation is an alternate universe version of SPIDER-MAN
    (Peter Parker) who has defeated Doctor Octopus once and for all and
    had taken his tentacles, which he controls using a device worn on
    his head, and was also based on a small moment in the comics where
    Spider-Man temporarily takes up Doctor Octopus' arms only to lose
    control of them and have them destroyed. The tentacled Spider-Man is
    among the Spider-Men summoned by Beyonder and Madame Web in order to
    help Spider-Man fight the Spider-Carnage.
-   Steel Spider appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man episode
    "Spidah-Man", voiced by Jason Marsden in a Boston accent. This
    version of Ollie Osnick is a teenage genius from Boston and a great
    fan of Spider-Man who endorses the web-slinger's transfer to his
    hometown which he does with the support of the unnamed Mayor
    of Boston. But he becomes upset after Spider-Man rejects his offer
    to be his sidekick since it would've been too dangerous for him. As
    a result, he armors up some low-level criminals that Spider-Man had
    recently captured (a bank robber, a female museum thief, and a
    purse snatcher) as the Boston Terroriers (the bank robber becomes
    Plymouth Rocker, the female museum thief becomes Salem's Witch, and
    the purse snatcher becomes Slam Adams) and attacks as the Steel
    Spider (depicted as a high-tech suit of armor). After Steel Spider
    fights Spider-Man, the Boston Terroriers then turn against Steel
    Spider upon hearing about J. Jonah Jameson's reward for
    Spider-Man's unmasking. Steel Spider realizes the error of his ways
    and teams up with Spider-Man against the villains. Spider-Man and
    Steel Spider end up hitting the shut-off switches on the Boston
    Terroriers' armors. In the end, Spider-Man returns to New York while
    Steel Spider becomes Boston's own superhero.

