The STEPFORD CUCKOOS are a set of fictional mutant psychically linked
quintuplets (CELESTE CUCKOO, ESME CUCKOO, IRMA "MINDEE" CUCKOO, PHOEBE
CUCKOO, and SOPHIE CUCKOO). The alphabetical order of the Cuckoos' first
names corresponds with their ages, with Celeste being the firstborn and
Sophie being the youngest. Originally calling themselves the
FIVE-IN-ONE, with the deaths of Esme and Sophie the remaining sisters
are now known as the THREE-IN-ONE.

They are students at the Xavier Institute for Higher Learning and appear
in comic books published by .


Publication history

Their name is based on the novels The Midwich Cuckoos, by John Wyndham,
and The Stepford Wives by Ira Levin.

First appearing in New X-Men, vol. 1 #118, they were created by Grant
Morrison. Their origin, as the artificially created "daughters" of Emma
Frost, is revealed in X-Men: Phoenix—Warsong.

Esme and Sophie were among the feature characters in the 2011 two-issue
limited series Chaos War: X-Men.


Fictional character biographies

Origins

As revealed in the first issue of X-Men: Phoenix—Warsong, the sisters
are grown from ova cells harvested from telepath and then villain Emma
Frost while she lay comatose after a Sentinel attack that killed her
students, the original Hellions, and are only five of many cloned
daughters. The remaining hundreds (if not thousands) of clones reside
within incubation chambers inside a hidden underground laboratory at
The World, a complex housing the Weapon Plus (living beings designed
to serve as weapons) program. They were created by Dr. John Sublime to
be powerful weapons able to kill every mutant by combining their
telepathic abilities. The Cuckoos were designated Weapon XIV._

[The Five-in-One
Art by Frank Quitely.]They were first introduced as the protégés and
favorites of Emma Frost and were unaware of their true purpose and a
telepathic block was used to mask their placement in the school, causing
anyone who questioned their origins to lose their train of thought.
They, along with student Quentin Quire, were noted as the strongest
telepaths among the new students at the Xavier Institute of Higher
Learning. Although Quire and the Stepford Cuckoos were rivals, Quire had
a crush on Sophie. Sophie and the other Cuckoos considered him to be
disgusting and rejected him completely.

Partly as an expression of adolescent rebellion, partly under the
influence of a mutant drug called Kick, and partly out of a desire to
impress Sophie, Quire incited a student riot at the Xavier Institute for
Higher Learning. Sophie died stopping Quire, having used the same drug
to boost her powers and overexerting herself. The Stepford Cuckoos
held Frost to be partially responsible for Sophie's death, Frost having
"inspired her to heroism," and disassociated themselves from her at that
time. With the death of Sophie, the Five-in-One became the Four-in-One.
Wary of having a part of themselves missing, they tested to see if their
powers still functioned well by contacting Jean Grey telepathically and
informing her that Emma Frost was attempting to conduct an affair with
her husband, Scott Summers.

Secretly, Esme Cuckoo had been collaborating with X-Man Xorn, then
disguised as Magneto. Taking control of the Cuckoos' group mind, she
telepathically steers Angel Salvadore to attack Emma Frost, completely
shattering her diamond body into fragments. Jean Grey manages to
telekinetically reassemble and return her to life, whereupon Emma
revealed Esme's involvement. Esme then abandons her sisters to join
Magneto's new Brotherhood of Mutants. Later losing faith in Xorn, the
Brotherhood turns on him, including Esme, who attacks him, angry that he
did not return her affections. Xorn then kills her and she dies in
Emma's arms, stating with her dying breath that she never wanted to end
up like Emma.

Corsairs

Soon afterwards, the Institute is rebuilt, with Emma Frost and Cyclops
as headmasters and leaders of the X-Men. Frost and Summers divided the
older students into several six-person training squads, each taught by a
staff member. The remaining three Cuckoos, now calling themselves the
"Three-in-One," were assigned to the Corsairs squad, advised by
Cyclops. The three girls were the co-leaders of the squad.

In X-Men: Phoenix Endsong (March–June 2005), the cosmic entity known
as the Phoenix Force came back to Earth seeking to inhabit the body of
Jean Grey. Quentin Quire, still in love with Sophie, sensed the Phoenix
and exhumed Sophie's body. He sought the Phoenix, which resurrected
Sophie, but she promptly chooses to die again rather than be with him.
The X-Men defeat the Phoenix, though a shard of it in firefly form
locates Celeste.

Weapon Plus and Phoenix—Warsong

In New X-Men, vol. 1 #154 (May 2004), the Stepford Cuckoos are
identified as Weapon XIV (each girl being units 1 to 5, ordered
alphabetically by their first names), the living weapon code between
Weapon XIII (Fantomex) and Weapon XV (Ultimaton).

[Cover to X-Men: Phoenix—Warsong #3 depicting the
"Thousand-in-One"/Weapon XIV, by Marc Silvestri.] Manipulated by both
the shard of the Phoenix and Dr. John Sublime, the Cuckoos reanimate
Esme and Sophie as corpses and return to the World. At the World, they
are greeted by a computer image of Sublime and learn of their thousands
of cloned siblings. Their true purpose was to collect data on the X-Men
and transmit it to the other clones through shared nano-technology in
their bodies. It is revealed that the Phoenix fragment has manifested in
order to destroy the Cuckoos and all of their clones to prevent them
from being activated as a weapon and killing all mutants. The Phoenix
manifests most strongly through Celeste, using her as its avatar, but is
then diffused according to Sublime's plans among each of the cloned
telepaths, boosting their powers. The Cuckoos then learn that they also
shared Emma's ability to turn into a diamond form. Now referring to
themselves as the THOUSAND-IN-ONE and under Sublime's control, the
cosmically-empowered psychics proceed to enact their programmed destiny
of mutant destruction. Celeste, at Emma's behest, accepts her role as a
Phoenix host and wrestles control of the Phoenix, freeing the clones
from Sublime's control for the first time. However, the Phoenix goes on
to destroy the thousand clones, despite their newfound freedom and
desire to experience life, by shattering their newly manifested diamond
forms as well as Esme and Sophie. Disgusted by the destruction, Celeste
casts the entity out of her body. However, it refuses to depart causing
Celeste to reabsorb it into her own and Mindee and Phoebe's diamond
hearts to end the Phoenix's destruction. Unlike Emma's diamond
composition, which contains a flaw, the Cuckoo's hearts are flawless
diamond. As such, the Phoenix fragment is literally sealed within their
hearts. The price the sisters must pay for this is that they can never
again feel emotion, leaving them more detached from others than they
were before.

Post Civil War

The Stepford Cuckoos are being considered as "potential recruits" for
the Initiative program. The girls are next seen helping Elixir
master medical and anatomical knowledge via Beast's brain. They are soon
after teleported to Limbo with the other students and captured by
Belasco who has helmets placed on them to keep them asleep to prevent
them from using their powers. They were freed by a newly revived X-23
and turn the tide of the battle against Belasco. When the Hulk
attacks Xavier, the Astonishing X-Men, and the New X-Men, the Stepford
Cuckoos contact several other X-teams such as Excalibur, the Uncanny
X-team, and X-Factor to get their help. They then help Prodigy
access all his forgotten knowledge and abilities to compensate for his
power loss as thanks for saving them when anti-mutant terrorists known
as the Purifiers' attacked the school.

Messiah Complex

The Cuckoos use Cerebro to track down Cable, who has the missing mutant
baby for whom the X-Men are looking.

When the X-Men arrive at the location indicated by the Cuckoos, the baby
had already been stolen by the Marauders. The Cuckoos are unable to
relocate the baby telepathically, so Emma Frost orders them to focus on
finding the Marauders who kidnapped it.

Manifest Destiny

Following the events of the Messiah Complex, the Cuckoos rejoin the
X-Men in their new home of San Francisco, along with many of their
former classmates. The girls later agree to help erase Josh Foley's
memory of his work with the newly reformed X-Force team, so as to help
the team maintain a sense of a secrecy from the main X-Men team. They
agree to keep the team a secret, primarily out of loyalty to Cyclops.
The girls have recently begun to dress more individually than before, no
longer wearing matching outfits. Each of them also have different
hairstyles, with only one of the Cuckoos keeping their prior
hairstyle.

Secret Invasion

The Cuckoos help oppose Skrull invaders in San Francisco. When the
Skrulls place a blockade on all telepathic communication, they channel
their telepathy through Cerebra into Emma as she attempts to find the
psychic blockade and destroy it. Emma's psyche is briefly disconnected
from her body and as she fights the Skrull psychics, the Cuckoos, on
orders from Cyclops, use their telepathy to keep Emma's autonomic
functions going. Afterward, the Cuckoos appear as supporting
characters in Uncanny X-Men.

Nation X

During a pitched battle between the X-Men and a pack of genetically
altered versions of Predator X, the Phoenix fragments that were
contained in the Cuckoos' diamond hearts leave them and depart into
space for reasons unknown. During their time on Utopia, the Cuckoos
begin to experience boredom and start sneaking off the island to buy
DVDs of horror films. Influenced by the movies, the girls start mentally
torturing their classmates using scenarios from The Twilight Zone and
Ring among others. After Emma discovers this, she reveals that as a
child she was a fan of the film Clash of the Titans, and that she
occasionally daydreams of being in the movie herself. Realizing that she
always loved teaching, Emma decides to make the Cuckoos into teachers
for the island's school, thus giving them something to do with their
time.

Chaos War

During the "Chaos War" storyline, Esme and Sophie are among the fallen
X-Men members who return from the dead after what happened to the death
realms. Sophie confronted Esme about her death with little resolution.
During this time, Sophie befriended Thunderbird. While searching for
answers among the remains of the Xavier Institute, the former X-Men were
attacked by Carrion Crow: Eater of the Dead. Esme later sacrificed
herself to save her sister from Carrion Crow. In the aftermath of the
defeat of the Chaos King, Sophie is returned to the afterlife after
reality is restored by Hercules. Thunderbird even commented that the
next time that he is resurrected, it would be with Sophie.

Regenesis

After "Schism" Phoebe wanted to go to Westchester while Irma wanted to
stay at Utopia, leaving the deciding vote to Celeste, who chose Utopia
after learning that Quentin Quire was going to be at Westchester.
Following the death of Charles Xavier and the appearance in the present
day of the original five X-Men, the Cuckoos decide to join Cyclops's new
iteration of the Xavier School.

Wolverine and the X-Men

During AvX the Stepford Cuckoos came to stay at the Jean Grey School.
When Cyclops and his team came to confront Beast about bringing the
original X-Men forward in time the Cuckoos left with them. When Teen
Angel tried to leave Wolverine's school Teen Jean tried to force him to
stay against his will. As punishment the Cuckoos forced Teen Jean into
submission and only relented after Teen Jean had learned her "lesson."
Angel then left to join Cyclops's team much to Teen Jean's grief since
they were supposed to stay together.

Uncanny X-Men

After joining the team and getting settled in, Irma changes her hair
style, much to Celeste's horror, though Emma approves and encourages
Irma and her sisters to be their own people. Irma spots Triage and both
seem to have an attraction to each other, but neither acts on it. They
later participate as members of Cyclops's team during the Battle of the
Atom.

When the time-displaced team of the original X-Men join Cyclops's team,
Celeste becomes hostile towards the time-displaced teenage Jean Grey.
During an excursion to a mall, Jean reveals to Celeste that Irma and
Phoebe do not have a problem with her like Celeste does. The group
encounters a member of the Inhumans, and the Cuckoos as well as Jean
Grey are knocked out.


Powers and abilities

The Cuckoos share a telepathic hive mind. Powerful telepaths
individually, their combined power is even greater than its sum. These
powers allow them the psychic standards of broaasting/receiving
thoughts, mind control, planting illusions, force blasts of pure psionic
energy, astral projection, etc. Their gestalt mind allows them to
communicate with one another instantaneously, though the strength of
their gestalt depends on their proximity to one another; the further
they are from one another, the weaker their ability to connect.

Though they most often function and act as one unit, they are indeed
capable of thinking and operating individually. When all five sisters
were alive, Sophie was the dominant consciousness and often commanded
the Cuckoos. However, as implied by Esme's actions, it is possible for
another one of the Cuckoos to wrest control of the gestalt and perhaps
even use the powers of all sisters without the consent and knowledge of
the others. With the loss of Sophie and Esme, The Cuckoos are not as
strong as they were with five.

Like their mother, Emma Frost, each Cuckoo sister also possesses the
ability to transform into an organic diamond body, and as such gains
invulnerability, durability, and super strength. Unlike Frost, however,
their diamond forms are flawless; such that nothing can enter or escape.
They demonstrate this ability by sealing the splintered fragment of the
Phoenix Force inside their hearts by permanently changing their hearts
to diamond, in the process sacrificing their ability to ever feel
genuine emotions again. The Phoenix Force eventually manages to escape,
potentially allowing the sisters to regain their emotions. During the
Warsong series, the Cuckoos gained the power of flight and
pyrokinesis, presumably from Phoenix-induced telekinesis.

Additionally, the Cuckoos have demonstrated telekinesis.

The power level of the Cuckoos, in all of their incarnations, have been
reported by many of the staff at Xavier's School to be extremely
impressive and strong.

Personalities

Esme Cuckoo

100pxpx|thumb|Esme, after leaving her sisters and joining Xorn's
Brotherhood of Mutants Esme Cuckoo was the first to split from her
sisters, falling in love with Shi'ar-soldier Stuff who disguised itself
as a student. She soon attempts to murder Frost, and was later
revealed to be the one responsible for the events that killed Sophie.
Wanting to seize control of the Cuckoos but encountering resistance from
Sophie, Esme used the drug Kick on herself to augment her own psychic
powers and take control of the Stepford Cuckoos' group mind. Esme
manipulated her sister Sophie into also using the drug Kick in order to
overexert her telepathic powers to the point of death. Esme returned in
the Planet X storyline, in which it was revealed that Esme had been
working for Xorn the entire time, and that she had developed a crush on
him. However, Esme turned on him and tried to destroy his mind after he
rejected her affections. Xorn reluctantly was forced to kill her. She
dies in Emma's arms, who tells Esme that out of all the Cuckoos, she was
most proud of her.

Sophie Cuckoo

Sophie Cuckoo's personality is explored just before her death. She was
stated as always being the dominant mind amongst her sisters. When
Quentin Quire began a riot on the Xavier Campus, Sophie was "inspired to
heroism" and used Kick to strengthen her powers and fight him. The
strain killed Sophie, though it was secretly Esme's psychic influence
that ultimately pushed her toward death. She has since been portrayed in
other realities as the most free-thinking of the Cuckoos.

Irma "Mindee" Cuckoo

Mindee Cuckoo was the next Cuckoo to be written with a distinct
personality. She had a relationship with another student, Germaine, who
was killed by an anti-mutant mob when the students were trapped in a
building in the aftermath of Xorn's destruction of Manhattan. She then
had a combative relationship with Jay Guthrie who was always
interrupting her while she played the piano. She later helped Gambit
during Exodus's Brotherhood's attack on the school. Her real first name
is "Irma".

Irma has now dyed her hair and cut it short; she is now a brunette.
Triage is attracted to her and the feeling might be mutual.

Celeste Cuckoo

During the events of Warsong, Celeste Cuckoo expressed fears of losing
touch with her sisters, changing personalities, and wielding the Phoenix
Force. According to Emma, she is the tattletale of the group. She
eventually accepted her powers, killing the Thousand-in-One clones and
her resurrected sisters per the cosmic judgment of Phoenix. Disgusted by
the destruction the Phoenix caused, she tried to expel the Phoenix
fragment from her body, but was instead forced to seal it inside
Mindee's, Phoebe's, and her own diamond hearts. She is portrayed as the
most compassionate of all the Cuckoos.

Upon meeting a teenage Jean Grey who was brought to the present by
Beast, Celeste takes an instant dislike towards her and they are
constantly bickering. When Irma decides to change her hair style and act
more like an individual, Celeste is horrified at the thought of losing
her connection to her sister. Much to her despair, Emma welcomes the
sisters' growing individuality. Celeste also finds that her sisters both
have little problem with Jean, furthering their divide.

Phoebe Cuckoo

Phoebe Cuckoo demonstrated a power-hungry personality during the events
of Warsong. In contrast to Celeste, who feared the consuming power of
the Phoenix, Phoebe desired power out of the sheer affinity for wielding
it. She readily embraced the Phoenix and enjoyed the destructive power
it gave her.


Conceptual changes

Originally, the first letter of each of the Cuckoo's names was supposed
to spell out the word "spice" when put in proper sequence, Sophie,
Phoebe, Irma, Celeste and Esme, a reference to the British pop group,
the Spice Girls. However, Grant Morrison never mentioned the name of the
fifth Cuckoo (the one whose name was supposed to start with "I") during
his run on New X-Men, and it was only later on that this fifth Cuckoo
was named "Mindee" by Chuck Austen, who was unaware of Morrison's Easter
egg. However, writer Matt Fraction later rectified this, stating that
Mindee's real first name was Irma, thus restoring the original
acronym.

They were first called the Stepford Cuckoos in New X-Men, vol. 1 #123
(April 2002), which was also the first issue in which Esme was named.
Sophie, Phoebe, Celeste, and Mindee were named in New X-Men, vol. 1
#134 (January 2003), New X-Men, vol. 1 #149 (January 2004), New
X-Men, vol. 1 #153 (April 2004), and New X-Men, vol. 1 #156 (June
2004), respectively. In the New X-Men: Academy X Yearbook, their last
name was confirmed as "Cuckoo" and their codename as the "Three-in-One".


Other versions

Age of X

In the "Age of X" reality, the Stepford Cuckoos are shown as inmates of
Fortress X's X-Brig.

Exiles

In a reality shown in Exiles, where after the Hulk was jettisoned into
space and discovered by Annihilus, killing him and taking the
Annihilation Wave to Earth, Sophie, Esme and Mindee appear as some of
the few remaining superhumans. Sophie has detached herself from the two
remaining Cuckoos and is dating Quentin Quire, while Esme and Mindee
remain like their original depictions in the main  Universe.
Sophie's mental abilities have also increased, and she has recurring
dreams of future events to come.

Here Comes Tomorrow

In the "Here Comes Tomorrow" timeline, 150 years from now, Celeste,
Mindee and Phoebe are members of the X-Men and operators of Cerebra,
having merged with the machine, and calling themselves the
"Three-in-One." Their psychic powers have also been amplified,
allowing them to see the future. Despite the long time that has passed,
they appear to be in their early twenties. With the release of the
Warsong miniseries this can be attributed to the nanites in their
bodies and their origins as Weapon XIV. [The House of M Five-in-One
Art by Aaron Lopresti.]

House of M

In House of M, the quintuplets were part of the New Mutant Leadership
Program at the United Nations. From the five, Sophie appeared to be the
one with the stronger personality. Sophie joined Prodigy, Surge and the
rest of the New Mutants on their trip to Japan to find Seiji Ashida,
while Celeste, Esme, Mindee, and Phoebe remained in New York, though
they agreed to maintain the secret. Sophie was later killed in Japan by
anti-mutant terrorists.

X-Men: The End

In the alternate future depicted in X-Men: The End, Celeste, Mindee,
and Phoebe have each developed their own look and now call themselves
"the Spikes." Phoebe has long, brown hair, Mindee has long, blond
hair, and Celeste has short, black hair.


In other media

Television

In the animated series Wolverine and the X-Men, The Stepford Cuckoos
(voiced by Tara Strong) appear alongside the Inner Circle in the three
part episode "Foresight". They assist Emma Frost into tricking Jean
Grey to release the Phoenix Force. After the Inner Circle betrays Emma,
the Cuckoos are ordered to finish the job. All five serve as hosts for
the Phoenix Force and wear the traditional red and gold Dark Phoenix
costumes. As warned by Emma, the Phoenix Force becomes too powerful for
the Cuckoos to control. It leaves their bodies after Jean Grey calls to
Phoenix, asking it to return to her body. However, as the Phoenix Force
attempts to return to Jean, Emma intercepts the Phoenix and sacrifices
herself to destroy it.

Film

Three identical blonde girls were shown in the background in an
Institute scene in X-Men: The Last Stand. Writer Zak Penn confirmed in
a chat that these were indeed the Stepford Cuckoos.

Video games

The Stepford Cuckoos appear as antagonists in the video game X-Men
Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse, voiced by Jennifer Hale. They are
encountered in the Madri Temple and end up handing Emma Frost over to
Apocalypse. They fight the X-Men alongside Holocaust who serves as their
protector. There was a reference that they left the X-Mansion when their
fourth sister was killed in action in a recent mission.

