STINGRAY (WALTER NEWELL) is a fictional character appearing in American
comic books published by .


Publication history

The character first appears as Walter Newell in Tales to Astonish #95
(Sep. 1967) and as Stingray in Prince Namor, the Sub-Mariner #19 (Nov.
1969).


Fictional character biography

Walter Newell first appears in the title Tales to Astonish as an
oceanographer working for the United States government. The character
encounters the human/Atlantean hybrid hero Namor the Sub-Mariner and his
lover Lady Dorma, whilst supervising the construction of a domed sub-sea
city whose purpose is to harvest food for mankind. The city, however, is
destroyed by the villain the Plunderer. Newell becomes a perennial
character in the title Prince Namor, the Sub-Mariner and aids the hero
and Dorma against the villain Tiger Shark and is coerced by the
government into investigating the disappearance of water from the
Earth's oceans. This is attributed to aliens who are believed to be in
league with Namor. Ordered to capture Namor, Newell develops a suit
based on the form of the sea creature the manta ray, and as 'Stingray'
captures Namor, who was weakened at the time. Newell, however, believes
Namor to be innocent and allows him to escape.

Stingray aids Namor and the Inhuman Triton against a group of Atlanteans
who destroy an ocean liner and falsely claim to have done so for Namor.
The culprit is revealed to be Atlantean warlord Attuma, who is
eventually defeated. Stingray assists Namor in a search for his
father Leonard Mackenzie, with Mackenzie being accidentally killed in a
battle with villains Llyra and Tiger Shark.

After brief appearances in titles the Hulk and Defenders
respectively, Newell becomes a regular guest-star in the title
 Two-In-One. The character moves his oceanographic facilities
and research to Hydro-Base, an artificial island previously used by the
insane ecologist Doctor Hydro (occupied by Dr. Henry Croft and the
passengers of an airplane, who were captured by Hydro and changed into
merfolk known as the Hydro-Men). As Stingray, Newell aids Fantastic
Four member the Thing; Triton and heroine the Scarlet Witch against the
villains the Serpent Squad and company Roxxon Oil to prevent them from
obtaining the artifact the Serpent Crown. Stingray is present when
Mister Fantastic cures Croft and the other passengers, and aids the
Thing, and Inhumans Gorgon and Karnak against Maelstrom's Minions, who
steal a dose of the healing compound.

Newell marries Diane Arliss, the sister of Todd Arliss (the real name of
villain Tiger Shark) and leased part of Hydro-Base to superhero team
the Avengers, and becomes an associate member of the team. During
the first Armor Wars storyline, Avenger Iron Man confronts Stingray,
mistakenly believing that Newell's suit was based on technology stolen
from Stark Enterprises, forcing Stark to publicly fire Iron Man to
protect his company from being affected by his current actions after he
confirmed that Stingray's suit had been independently created.
Stingray aids the Avengers when Hydro-Base is invaded by Heavy Metal, a
team of robot villains (consisting of the Super-Adaptoid, Machine Man,
Awesome Android, TESS-One, and the Kree Sentry 459).

During the Acts of Vengeance storyline, the Hydro-Base is damaged by
an attack from Doctor Doom's Doombots and sinks, with Stingray aiding
the Avenger Quasar in a salvage operation, and then joining a group
of reserve Avengers in a battle against the Mad Thinker's Awesome
Android. In the title  Presents Stingray encounters
now-brother-in-law Tiger Shark and after a battle work together to save
Diane Arliss, who is trapped after a cave-in. The character aids the
Avengers; Canadian super team Alpha Flight and the People's Protectorate
during The Crossing storyline and with Namor battles a
subterranean army.

After featuring in a  Presents solo story the
character appears in the first storyline of the third volume of the
title the Avengers and in the title Mutant X. Stingray aids
the Avengers in an extended storyline against futuristic villain Kang
the Conqueror; appears in the limited series
Avengers/Thunderbolts and the final issues of the third volume of
the Avengers.

During the Civil War storyline, Stingray is a member of the Secret
Avengers - led by Captain America - who oppose the Superhuman
Registration Act. After Captain America's arrest and subsequent
death, Stingray accepts Tony Stark's (Iron Man's alter ego) offer of a
full pardon, and joins The Initiative.

The character appears in another solo story in the second volume of
 Presents and in an ongoing basis in the title
Avengers: The Initiative.

During the AXIS storyline, Stingray is among the heroes recruited by
an inverted Doctor Doom to join his team of Avengers.

After the eight month timeskip following Secret Wars, Stingray is seen
as part of Deadpool's Heroes for Hire. It is later revealed that
Stingray is actually a double agent assigned to spy on Deadpool's team
by Captain America.


Powers and abilities

Walter Newell designed and wears the Stingray battlesuit, an armored
exoskeleton suit composed of a superhard artificial cartilage designed
mainly for underwater use. The Stingray battlesuit enhances his strength
and durability to superhuman levels, which allow him to operate within
the crushing pressures of the ocean depths. His suit is equipped with an
oxygen-diffusing system providing breathable air almost indefinitely,
allowing him to breathe underwater. The suit also gives him enhanced
swimming speed and its streamlined wings allow him to glide through air
for great distances. The suit's chief offensive weapon is a powerful
electrical discharge device built into the exoskeleton, able to project
bolts of up to 20,000 volts through air or water and released through
the gloves.

Walter Newell has a gifted intellect, and has a Ph. D. in oceanography.
He is an experienced oceanographer, and a skilled inventor of
experimental oceanographic equipment.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

In the Age of Apocalypse reality, Stingray is the captain of the
submarine Excalibur which transports refugees to Avalon.

 Zombies

Stingray is seen as part of the zombified horde of heroes in Ultimate
Fantastic Four.

Mutant X

In the Mutant X reality, Stingray is a member of the Defenders.
Stingray was on a mission in Atlantis when the Sentinels attack Avengers
Mansion. He joined up with the Defenders to keep the Goblin Queen from
getting into the Nexus of All Realities.

Secret Wars

During the Secret Wars storyline, a version of Stingray resides in the
futuristic Battleworld domain of Technopolis (which is based on a world
in which everyone wears armors to live and survive due to an unknown
airborn virus). This version is a spy outfitted with an advanced suit of
armor developed by Arno Stark. He is sent to spy on Kiri Oshiro by Arno
Stark and Wilson Fisk and ends up trying to kill the girl and her friend
Lila Rhodes after stating that he can't leave behind any witnesses. Kiri
manages to defeat Stingray before he can kill Lila.


In other media

Television

-   Stingray appears in the Iron Man episode "Armor Wars" Pt. 2,
    voiced by Tom Kane. Stingray is a naval command officer who can use
    the water and air surroundings to his advantages. Iron Man targets
    him for his armor when it was thought that it had stolen Stark
    Armor invention. When Iron Man takes down Stingray and places a
    power negator (machines that were created to disable his
    stolen technology) on him, he learns that Stingray's suit did not
    have tech from the Stark Armor designs.

