    ''This article is about the  character Sun Girl. For
    the  character of the same name, see Sun Girl
    ()_.''

SUN GIRL is the name of two superheroines from .


Publication history

The first Sun Girl was created by artist Ken Bald and an unidentified
writer. She first appeared in Sun Girl #1 (Aug. 1948), published by
's 1940s precursor, Timely Comics. Sun Girl starred in a namesake
three-issue series cover-dated August to December 1948. She subsequently
co-starred in stories of the original Human Torch in The Human Torch
#32-35 (Sept. 1948 - March 1949), Captain America Comics #69 (Nov.
1948), Sub-Mariner Comics #29 (Nov. 1948), and  Mystery Comics
#88-91 (Oct. 1948 - April 1949). She additionally starred in a solo
story each in the first two of those  Mystery issues. The Human
Torch-Sun Girl story "The Ray of Madness" from The Human Torch #33
(Nov. 1948) was reprinted decades later in 's Giant-Size
Avengers #1 (Aug. 1974). Sun Girl appears in flashback in the final two
issues of the four-issue miniseries Saga of the Original Human Torch
(April–July 1990)

A new Sun Girl debuted in Superior Spider-Man Team-Up #1 and will
appear as one of the main characters in the upcoming  NOW!
relaunch of the New Warriors.


Fictional character biography

Mary Mitchell

A personal secretary for Jim Hammond, the original Human Torch, during
the post-war 1940s, Mary Mitchell falls in love with him and becomes his
partner as well as his sidekick after Toro leaves to tend to his ailing
foster mother. In issue #32 (Sept. 1948), Sun Girl helps the Torch clear
the name of an innocent man accused of murder charges, by exposing the
real culprit. Later, they convince a retired doctor to perform surgery
on a little girl who accidentally swallowed a diamond hidden in a
lollypop. Mary leaves to go on her own adventures after that. She
occasionally teams up with heroes besides the Torch, such as Captain
America. After Toro returns she resumes her position as secretary and
researcher.

During the "Last Days" part of the Secret Wars storyline, Sun Girl was
seen living at Valhalla Villas (a retirement home for ex-heroes and
ex-villains that is located in Miami). She is among the residents that
were temporarily de-aged during the final incursion between Earth-616
and Earth-1610.

Selah Burke

A new Sun Girl later appears as one of the heroes temporarily possessed
by the Carrion virus after she came in contact with William Allen. Sun
Girl is attacked by The Superior Spider-Man (Doctor Octopus' mind in
Peter Parker's body). The Superior Spider-Man cures Sun Girl of the
Carrion virus. Her identity is later revealed to be Selah Burke, the
daughter of Lightmaster at the time when the Superior Spider-Man made
use his Superior Six (consisting of a brainwashed Chameleon, Electro,
Mysterio, Sandman, and Vulture) to combat the Wrecking Crew. After the
Superior Spider-Man fails and the now free Superior Six have captured
him and taken hold of a machine that could destroy New York City, Selah
manages to save Superior Spider-Man and destroy the machine. They part
in bad terms, with Sun Girl thinking that Superior Spider-Man is a
"jerk" due to his condescending attitude and insane brainwashing
scheme.

Selah next appeared in issue #1 of the 2014 New Warriors relaunch,
helping to save the Morlocks from an attack by the mysterious
Evolutionaries. When offered the opportunity to walk away by these
attackers (as they have no intention of going after normal humans), she
opts to sacrifice so the mutants can run away. Haechi steps in and uses
his energy absorbing powers to shield her. Speedball and Justice enter
the scene which makes the three attackers reevaluate their tactical
position and later flee as they were now outnumbered. {{-}}


Powers and abilities

Mary Mitchell is a good acrobat and is an expert in both Judo and Jiu
Jutsu. She also wields a Sunbeam Ray Gun which produces a bright blast
of light as well as a lariat which she keeps in her emergency pouch.

Selah Burke is a proficient engineer who creates a suit with a harness
that grants her flight and the ability to project light blasts. The suit
is later modified by the Superior Spider-Man. She also wields pistols
capable of firing concussive blasts. She developed and constructed her
gear and weapons based on her father's light manipulation technology.

