SYNCH (EVERETT THOMAS) is a fictional character, a  mutant
superhero. Created by Scott Lobdell, he first appeared in X-Men #36,
September, 1994.


Publication history


Fictional character biography

left|thumb|150px|X-Men #36. Art by Andy Kubert.Everett Thomas was born
in St. Louis, Missouri. He is first introduced in X-Men #36 when the
mechanical collective race known as the Phalanx had assimilated the
X-Men and attempted to wipe out what was to be the next generation of
mutant heroes: Husk, Jubilee, Monet, Skin, and Blink, all of whom, with
the exception of Blink, would eventually become members of Generation
X. Synch synced with Banshee, who was in the area, in order to defend
himself from the Phalanx. However, as a side effect, he shattered all
the windows nearby, which drew the attention of the local police. Even
as they surrounded him, a few officers had already been infected by the
Phalanx and again tried to capture Everett. He was saved by Banshee and
Sabretooth, and then quickly helped them prevent yet another Phalanx
attack on the White Queen and Jubilee, who had helped locate Everett.
The White Queen linked her mind with Everett's and Jubilee's, which
allowed Everett to synch with Jubilee and use her powers to a degree she
had been afraid to, defeating the Phalanx for the moment.

This misfit band of heroes ended up saving the other kids who were
captured by the Phalanx, and with the sacrifice of Blink, they escaped
the menace. Following this, the kids were all relocated to the
Massachusetts Academy where they would train to use their powers,
receive a formal education, and act as Generation X, the next generation
of X-Men, on the side. They were soon joined by new recruits Chamber,
who had been invited by Charles Xavier, and Penance, a former prisoner
of the mutant Emplate who had been liberated by Gateway.

Synch played a major role in many of Generation X's adventures, and was
known for being both even-tempered and very resourceful in the growing
use of his (and by extension, his teammates') powers. During one of
Emplate's attacks, Synch fell under his thrall and became one of his
vampire-like minions. This rendered most battle strategies against Synch
useless, as he could use his teammates' powers against them without
restraint, forcing them to employ more unconventional means.

Synch was also unknowingly a source of romantic tension among his female
teammates. His close friendship with Jubilee eventually resulted in her
having strong feelings for him. Synch never seemed aware of this and
apparently did not feel the same way, due largely to a crush on
Monet. For a time Synch was fixated on Gaia, who did initially seem
just as interested in him. Shortly before a battle where the team
could have died, Synch admitted to Monet he regretted never having a
first kiss. Monet (who was being impersonated by her sisters Nicole and
Claudette, unknown to Synch at the time) agreed to share one with him,
which clearly left quite an impression on him, even once Nicole
admitted the deception and the true Monet returned. Synch later began
dating the true Monet after she admitted her feelings for him, but their
relationship would be cut short by tragedy.

When Emma Frost's sister Adrienne Frost comes to America, she forces
Emma to re-admit her back into the school. If not, Adrienne would
release information to the parents of the normal students that the
Xavier School for Gifted Youngsters was a secret training ground for
mutants. Later, Adrienne created mutant hatred amongst the human
students in the school. When the parents of the non-mutant students
heard that their children were going to school with mutants, they all
rushed to take their children away from the academy, causing a riot.
However, Adrienne had planted bombs all around the school. Banshee and
Synch set out to deactivate all the bombs, while Emma and Adrienne
brutally fought. Eventually, Emma pulled out a gun and shot Adrienne.
Meanwhile, Banshee and Synch separated. Synch found a bomb and there
were human students nearby. He synced with the nearest mutant, Monet.
However, she was too far away, so he only received a portion of her
powers, which was her super strength. Using all his might, he threw the
human kids out of the room, saving them from the explosion.
Unfortunately, he wasn't able to save himself, dying to save his human
peers.

Synch is later resurrected by means of the Transmode Virus to serve as
part of Selene's army of deceased mutants. Under the control of Selene
and Eli Bard, he takes part in the assault on the mutant nation of
Utopia. Everett's fate is uncertain as it is unknown whether he was
among the mutants teleported to Genosha by Blink to serve as a sacrifice
to the newly-godlike Selene or whether he was among the mutants that
managed to escape Utopia.


Powers and abilities

Synch's mutant power equips him with a bio-energetic aura that allows
him to duplicate the effect of the powers of any superpowered being in
his vicinity and sometimes the power itself, essentially becoming "in
synch" with that person (or more specifically, his or her bio-energetic
aura). When Synch uses his powers, a multi-colored aura appears around
his body. The aura is caused by the energies he is absorbing splitting
the ambient light around him. Synch seemingly had greater mastery of his
mutant abilities than his peers, often displaying more control over
whatever powers he copied than that person. For example, he was also
able to utilize Chamber's powers to fly, something Chamber was never
able to do. It had been theorized that in time, Synch would have been
able to permanently retain any powers he acquired. However he is not
always able to synch with purely physical abilities or abilities that
exceed his physical makeup. In House of M, he was able to retain
powers permanently as a junior member of S.H.I.E.L.D.. If Synch had not
died he would potentially have become one of the most powerful mutants
in the  Universe.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

In the Age of Apocalypse, Synch was one of the many mutants killed in
the war with Apocalypse. His dying before he got the chance to fight
back was one of the reasons that Jubilee decided to join Gambit's band
of mutant thieves, the X-Ternals.

Days of Future Past

In the Days of Future Past timeline, Everett became Jubilee's lover, and
aided her along with the X-Men of that time to rebel against their
oppressors.

House of M

In the House of M timeline Synch was alive and a member of the junior
S.H.I.E.L.D. division, the Hellions, but was later killed during a
battle with an alternate version of the Hellions, the New Mutants, and a
Japan-based human resistance group which was caused by an alternate
version of Laurie Garrison (Wallflower).


In other media

Television

-   He appears in the episode "Badlands" of Wolverine and the X-Men.

Film

In the X2 film, when Mystique goes through the files on Yuriko's
computer, a close inspection reveals that Stryker is keeping files on
Synch.

