TAG (BRIAN CRUZ) is a mutant appearing in comic books published by
. He first appeared in New Mutants, vol. 2 #7 and was a
member of the student body of the Xavier Institute and the Hellions
squad therein.


Biography

Brian Cruz came to Emma Frost's squad after the X-Mansion was rebuilt.
He joined up with the Hellions and took on the codename "Tag." He never
questioned Hellion and went along with his plans.

Tag is featured in the New X-Men: Hellions series that debuted in
October 2005. While vacationing in Hellion's parents' home, the entire
squad stumbles upon the secret of the Kingmaker. In a seemingly magical
ritual, Tag and the others say their full name into the phone after
guarding a number hidden in a safe. A man called the Kingmaker appears
shortly afterwards and convinces the squad that he can grant them their
heart's desires in exchange for a later favor. Tag becomes the business
manager for his friends; this is his wish as arranged by their new ally.
Brian simply did not want to lose his friends after they became famous.
However, the favor turns out to be the theft of a biological weapon.
Before they realize the immoral implications, the group fights
Diamondback and Paladin. Then they rebel. Despite the Kingmaker being
physically formidiable (he can shake off Tag's powers) the Hellions
retrieve and destroy the weapon. 

After most of the world's mutants lost their powers during the
Decimation, Emma Frost decided it would be best if non-powered students
left the school. While some left early, Tag stuck around the mansion as
long as possible. After he and several other mutants (including Dryad
and Network) said goodbye to their friends, they climbed on a bus out of
Xavier's. However, the bus was destroyed by a missile launched by
William Stryker's Purifiers. Tag and the others that were in the bus
were killed.


Powers and abilities

Tag could "tag" other people, originally causing them to emit a psionic
signal compelling others to run away from the tagged subject. In the
Hellions mini-series he further developed his abilities to cause
people to flock to a tagged individual as well. He then finds he can do
this to inanimate objects as well. His powers can be resisted by those
with mental training; they also have range limits.


Other versions

House of M

Tag appeared in the House of M and had an unrequited crush on Quentin
Quire. When Quire committed suicide, Cruz doubted it and started
investigating his friends death. Cruz ends up saving Douglas Ramsey and
Shan Coy Manh from Sean Garrison by "tagging" him, making him run away
from himself, which he accomplishes by jumping out of the window to his
death. 

