THEA is a fictional character that appears in the NEW-GEN comic books
published by . Created by Chris Matonti, J.D. Matonti, and
Julia Coppola, she first appeared in NEW-GEN #1 (2010). She is the wife
of Gabriel, mother to the twins Sean and Chris, and one of principal
educators for the A.P.N.G.


Fictional Character Biography

Deadalus' Betrayal

Thea was a guardian of the natural environment of New-Gen for a long
time before Gabriel began enhancing the world with nanotechnology.
Working in concert, they were able to unify both the scientific and
natural aspects of New-Gen into a utopian futuristic paradise. However,
Sylvester Deadalus, Gabriel's apprentice, and colleague betrayed his
mentor and released an enormous swarm of bio-manipulative nanobots onto
the people of New-Gen. These nanobots mutated the bodies of those they
came into contact with, giving them super powers and enhanced abilities.
After a fierce battle Gabriel eventually triumphed and banished Deadalus
to the underworld as punishment. As a precaution, to protect them from
Deadalus should he ever return to New-Gen, Gabriel decided to send his
sons to live and be raised in present-day New York City on Earth. Before
he sent them there, Gabriel expressed concern that their bodies had also
been affected by Deadalus' nanobot infestation, although they showed no
outward signs of this being the case. Thea was very opposed to this
plan, and was bitter towards Gabriel for making the call.

Departure and Return

After Gabriel sent away their children, Thea became despondent and
bitter. She left Gabriel for a time, leaving the technologically
advanced city which they called their home to return to her place of
birth, in the untouched natural part of the world. She eventually did
return to find that Gabriel was having trouble effectively training the
children he took in with the aim of creating the A.P.N.G. Thea, knowing
Gabriel meant well, took over the duty of teaching them their
school-related subjects, while Gabriel supervised combat and tactics
exercises. Although they seemed to have made peace, Thea was still angry
at Gabriel for having sent Sean and Chris away.

Observing the Battle

When Deadalus emerged from the underworld onto Zadaar III, transformed
by microbots into the insane and brutal Sly, Gabriel sent Mini, Flyer,
Gazelle, Diamond, and Roboduck to fight and dispatch him. As he and Thea
watched from Gabriel's command center on New-Gen, Gabriel also noticed
their sons on Earth having fitful visions of the battle. Gabriel
prepared to depart and join the fray himself, carrying with him six
green orbs containing highly advanced nanotechnology. As Gabriel
fought alongside the A.P.N.G., Thea observed that Sean and Chris'
adoptive parents perceived that the twins "time had come," as more
bizarre things began happening to them. Thea realized that Gabriel's
hypothesis that the twins had been infected by Deadalus' nanobots was
correct, and that they were developing powers.


Powers, abilities, and equipment

Thea possesses the ability to see into the future, as well as to other
points in the time-space continuum, much like her son Sean seems to be
able to. She also seems to possess the ability to levitate herself and
other objects

