THUNDERCLAP (STANLEY GEORGE JOHNSON) is a fictional superhero created
by  UK a division of .


Publication history

Thunderclap first appeared in Spider-Man Weekly #607 (October 1984),
and was created by Mike Collins and Barry Kitson.


Fictional character biography

Born in West Bromwich, England, Stanley George Johnson was a struggling
electronics salesman until he decided to cannibalize together other
people's technology to create a pair of hydraulically powered gloves
that could create sonic booms. Soon, he left England for New York,
New York and took the name Thunderclap.

Thunderclap's first appearance on the superhero scene comes when
Spider-Man is trying to help police officers prevent a robber from
escaping. As Spider-Man is about to stop the disaster, Thunderclap
intervenes, slamming his hands together to create sonic booms that cause
massive property damage while stopping the burglars.

Spider-Man leaves after lecturing Thunderclap, and Thunderclap
apologizes to the police for the damage he has caused. When the press
arrive, however, Thunderclap introduces himself and blames Spider-Man
for the property damage. Thunderclap is declared a true hero by the
Daily Bugle.

Civil War

Years later during 's 2006 crossover Civil War,
Thunderclap spends some time battling the superhero Bantam. The fight,
which happens in Civil War: Frontline #3 and is witnessed by Sally
Floyd, is over Thunderclap's refusal to comply with the Superhero
Registration Act and Bantam's efforts to bring him in. The battle
concludes when Thunderclap knocks Bantam into a gas truck, which
explodes and kills him.

Thunderclap tries to apologize but, feeling too ashamed, disappears into
a nearby alley. Floyd, in a later issue of Frontline, wonders about
the convenience of the gas truck being so close to the battle.


Equipment

Thunderclap's piston-like metal gloves are connected to a hydraulic
device in the back of his suit which uses potential and kinetic energy
that allow the gloves to collide together faster than the speed of
sound. The resulting sonic boom (approximately 2000 decibels) is
released outwards in a destructive energy sphere which strikes any
matter with which it comes into contact with tremendous impact.

The sonic boom also has the tendency to temporarily deafen and
disorientate anyone in the immediate area. Thunderclap's cowl is
outfitted with protective silicone cups on the sides and an electronic
device which muffle the sound of his sonic booms while amplifying
quieter sounds to higher decibel levels.


Notes

