The THUNDERER is a fictional character, a superhero appearing in
American comic books published by Timely Comics.


Publication history

He first appeared in Daring Mystery Comics #7 (Timely, April 1941) and
was created by John Compton and Carl Burgos.


Fictional character biography

Frustrated that the United States did not seem to be dealing with crime
or Nazi saboteurs, radio operator Jerry Carstairs created a costume with
a built in microphone and went out to fight for justice as the
Thunderer. In his first recorded appearance, Jerry learned that radio
station WWLX was really a front for Nazi Fifth Columnists who were
transmitting secret messages hidden in music. Learning that they were
targeting his girlfriend Eileen Conroy, a newspaper reporter, Jerry
foiled their operation as the Thunderer. In order to protect his secret
identity, Jerry acted like a meek weakling while in his civilian
guise. Thunderer later uncovered the machinations of the hideously
deformed dwarf named Gore who hated beautiful people so much that he
rigged Morse Code death traps that killed his victims over the radio.
The Thunderer smashed up his operation and Gore was killed in a house
fire that broke out due to faulty wiring in his equipment.

Thunderer's activities were far and few between due to the limitations
his position with the FCC provided in giving him leads to criminal or
spy activities. The Thunderer briefly changed his name (but not his
costume) to the Black Avenger. In the fall of 1942, the FBI caught a
Nazi spy that resembled Jerry and convinced him to go undercover to try
and expose the spy ring that was sending defense secrets back to Nazi
Germany. As the Black Avenger, Jerry managed to round up the Nazis
including their leader Kurt Weidner and turning him over to justice

Alongside a number of other heroes, the Thunderer participated in an air
drop on a Nazi stronghold.

The Thunderer attended a reunion of World War II costumed heroes.

In 1943, the Black Avenger was among a number of heroes who were slain
by the Cosmic Cube-wielding Red Skull and impaled on a massive wall.
However, the Cosmic Cube was recovered by Private Paul Anslen who
resurrected all the slain heroes who aided the combined efforts of the
Invaders and the time displaced New Avengers and Mighty Avengers. When
Red Skull was defeated, the heroes used the Cosmic Cube to wipe out the
Black Avenger's memories of the event to preserve history/

During the "Last Days" part of the Secret Wars storyline, Thunderer is
seen as a resident of Valhalla Villas (a retirement home for ex-heroes
and ex-villains in Miama). He was temporarily de-aged during the
Incursion between Earth-616 and Earth-1610.


Powers and abilities

Thunderer is a good hand-to-hand combatant.

Due to the construction of his costume, Thunderer is capable of
deafening people or leveling buildings with his sonic scream.


In other media

Television

[Thunderer (far left) along with the other five "Forgotten Warriors" as
seen in Spider-Man.]

-   The Thunderer appeared in the five-part Spider-Man episode "Six
    Forgotten Warriors", voiced by Hansford Rowe. In this version, the
    Thunderer's powers are the result of an attempt at recreating the
    process that empowered Captain America and that special rings were
    needed to activate them. During WWII, the Thunderer fought alongside
    Captain America, Black , Destroyer, Miss America, and Whizzer.
    After Captain America "sacrificed" his life to stop the Red Skull
    from activating the Doomsday machine, Thunderer and the others took
    possession of the keys and retired. In the modern day, the Kingpin
    led the Insidious Six (consisting of Doctor Octopus, Scorpion,
    Rhino, Shocker, Vulture, and Chameleon) in trying to gather the
    keys, and hunted down each of the "Six Forgotten Warriors". The
    Thunderer was the last one to be located. Ironically, he had stayed
    close to the base determined to guard it while disguised as a
    homeless man. Thunderer later joined the others in fighting
    Kingpin's forces and later Red Skull's forces.

