THUNDERBIRD (JOHN PROUDSTAR) is a fictional superhero appearing in
American comic books published by . Thunderbird was briefly
a member of the X-Men. An Apache, Thunderbird possesses superhuman
athletic ability. He was a short time member of the "Second Genesis"
group of X-Men gathered together in Giant-Size X-Men #1 as he died on
their second mission.


Publication history

Thunderbird was created by writer Len Wein and artist Dave Cockrum for
the new X-Men, specifically to be a member of the team who would fail
the entrance exam. Having already decided that the previously introduced
characters Sunfire and Banshee would fail the exam, Wein and Cockrum
felt it would be unrealistic for only older characters to "flunk out",
and set about creating a new character to fit this role. After
developing Thunderbird, however, they decided that they liked the
character - his costume in particular - too much to write him off after
only one issue, and decided to keep him on.

The character debuted in Giant-Size X-Men #1 (May 1975). While working
on the first issues of the regular series, the creative team realized
that having Thunderbird as a regular character was problematic.
According to Cockrum, "...we created him as an obnoxious loudmouth, and
we already had an obnoxious loudmouth in Wolverine. So one of us decided
to kill him off after all, just for shock value." Chris Claremont,
who scripted the story, confirms that it was Wein who decided to kill
the character, and added, "He figured there are two ways to do this.
One, you spend years, if not decades, building up a relationship between
the audience and a character, building the emotional bonds between them
so when something happens to that character the audience is devastated.
Or you do it right off the bat, when no one is expecting it." The
story culminating in Thunderbird's death appeared in X-Men #94-95.

In 2010, the character appeared in the front of a teaser featuring X-Men
characters believed to be dead. It is titled "All New, All Different.
Thunderbird was one of the feature characters in the 2011 two-issue
limited series Chaos War: X-Men.


Fictional character biography

Origins

John Proudstar was born into an Apache tribe on a reservation in Camp
Verde, Arizona. As a teenager, Proudstar discovered he possessed the
mutant abilities of superhuman senses, strength, speed, stamina, and
sturdiness.

Proudstar was drafted into the United States Marine Corps during the
Vietnam War and earned the rank of corporal. He returned to his tribe
after the war, but he was unhappy and listless.

X-Men

He was then recruited by Professor Charles Xavier to join his third
group of X-Men. Eager to prove his prowess, Proudstar agreed and
assumed the superhero codename THUNDERBIRD. He assisted the other X-Men
in rescuing the original X-Men from Krakoa the mutant island.

During the weeks of training which followed, the ill-tempered and
individualistic Thunderbird often found himself going head to head with
the X-Men's leader, Cyclops. The new team's second mission took them to
Valhalla Base, Colorado, to combat Count Nefaria and the
Ani-Men. When Nefaria attempted to make his escape in a jet
plane, Proudstar leapt on board. Disregarding Professor X's orders to
jump to safety, Thunderbird hammered at it with his bare fists. The
plane exploded, killing Proudstar. (Count Nefaria is later
revealed to have survived the crash.)

Thunderbird's brother, Warpath (James Proudstar), has similar powers,
although to a much greater degree, and is also an X-Man.

Necrosha

When Warpath goes to visit Thunderbird's grave during the Necrosha
storyline, he encounters the Demon Bear. After defeating the creature
with the aid of Ghost Rider, he finds out that former Purifier Eli Bard
has dug up Thunderbird and everyone else buried there. It is
revealed that Bard used a version of the Technarch virus to resurrect
Thunderbird and the others as his servants. Thunderbird is later
seen with Selene's Inner Circle and Caliban being led to the ruins of
Genosha, which she dubs Necrosha. Thunderbird fights Warpath, who
snaps his neck and then kills Selene. Thunderbird's spirit is seen
departing, telling his brother that he "can let go now".

Chaos War

During the Chaos War storyline, Thunderbird is among the fallen X-Men
members (consisting of himself, Banshee, Moira MacTaggert, Esme and
Sophie of the Stepford Cuckoos, and three deceased dupes of Multiple
Man) to return from the dead after what happened to the death realms. He
remembers the last time he was briefly revived during the events of
Necrosha, albeit faintly. Thunderbird leads the revived X-Men members
into looking for a diary written by Destiny that might hold the key to
defeating Amatsu-Mikaboshi while evading Carrion Crow, Eater of the
Dead. Thunderbird called upon the mythical Thunderbird to get
him and his group away from the Carrion Crow. He and the group discover
that Moira MacTaggert has been possessed by Destiny's ghost. In the
aftermath of the defeat of the Chaos King, Thunderbird is returned to
the afterlife after reality is restored by Hercules. Thunderbird
contemplated that his life finally meant something and hoped that next
time he was resurrected, it would be with Sophie.


Powers and abilities

Thunderbird was a mutant that possesses superhuman strength (sufficient
to rip apart a fighter jet with his bare hands), speed (he was fast
enough to outrun a bison, possibly much faster), and stamina due to his
dense musculature. His senses were also enhanced, enabling him to
become a highly adept tracker.

Thunderbird had received military training in hand-to-hand combat.


Analysis

In Native Americans in Comic Books - A Critical Study,_ Michael A.
Sheyahshe compared John Proudstar to Tupac Shakur, noting that
"Thunderbird becomes even more popular, posthumously, than he ever was
while living."

In September 2001, Bill Rosemann, the Marketing Communications Manager
of , announced that "The death of Thunderbird!", Uncanny
X-Men #95 has been classed 32 in the 100 best .


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

In the Age of Apocalypse, Proudstar provided safe passage to Avalon
through the Infernal Gallop. Eventually he met the X-Man Nightcrawler
who had the mission to travel to Avalon and bring the mutant known as
Destiny. Proudstar refused first only to get his finger taken by
Nightcrawler when he accused Nightcrawler's mother Mystique of stripping
refugees of everything of worth for her services of transporting
refugees to Avalon. The finger was later restored and bandaged, possibly
sewn back on.

The Madri discovered Proudstar and the Infernal Gallop's location at
Ghost Dance and died from a shot in the back when the Madri infiltrated
Greenpoint.

Earth X

In the Earth X reality, Thunderbird was seen in the Realm of the Dead
talking with Professor X.

Exiles

An alternate version of John Proudstar is an original member of the
Exiles, a group of superhumans tasked with fixing damaged realities.
This Thunderbird is captured by Apocalypse during his time with the
X-Men and unwillingly transformed into one of his Four Horsemen, namely
War.

Thunderbird's time with this group is relatively short, several months
at most. He serves mainly as the powerhouse of the group. In the third
story arc he meets another alternate version of himself, who has become
the shaman of Alpha Flight, and this arc is largely centered on his
internal conflicts. Later, Thunderbird sacrifices himself to hold an
anti-matter bomb within the body of Galactus, which forces the
world-devourer to leave Earth after the massive injury the bomb causes.
Although his physical body heals from the damage caused by the
detonation, he is left in a coma. He is replaced by Sasquatch and the
team are forced to leave him behind. His body is later
discovered in the Panoptichron, a crystal city that lies between
realities, but has yet to be returned to his home reality.

During his time with the Exiles, he develops a romantic relationship
with teammate Nocturne, who is pregnant with his child when he
becomes comatose. (However, she later loses the child for
unexplained reasons.) Issue #16 shows flashbacks of previously unseen
scenes between the two characters that further develop their
relationship.

This version of Thunderbird is considerably more powerful than the
mainstream one, due to Apocalypse's augmentations. His skin is covered
by retractable armor plates that harden when he enters battle,
considerably increasing his durability, and even at base level his power
statistics are above his 616 counterpart. His power increases with his
rage, akin to the Hulk who he once defeated in close combat, and his
appearance becomes more bestial as he does so.

A side-effect of Apocalypse's modifications is that Thunderbird no
longer has a sense of taste. He nevertheless enjoys smelling
things.

Thunderbird wakes up and escapes the stasis wall in the
Panoptichron. He helps Psylocke and Cat regain control of the
Panoptichron during Doctor Doom's assault, and is later reunited
with Nocturne when the Exiles and New Excalibur teamed up to save Roma
and the Captain Britain Corps. Thunderbird leaves the team shortly
after to be with Nocturne on Heather's earth.

House of M

In the House of M reality, John Proudstar appears as a police
detective for the NYPD and as the leader of the strike force known as
the "Brotherhood." Proudstar eventually made a deal with Wilson
Fisk to bring in Luke Cage's gang as both a matter of pride and to end
his criminal activities. Thunderbird's efforts resulted in Cage's
Avengers battling the Brotherhood, in which their defeat caused Magneto
to disband the Brotherhood.

What If?

Thunderbird appeared in some issues of What If?_:

-   In "What If the X-Men Died on their First Mission?," Thunderbird was
    among the original line-up that died when Krakoa was hurtled into
    space.
-   In "What If Professor X Became the Juggernaut?," Thunderbird was
    part of Juggernaut's X-Men.
-   In "What If an All-New All-Different X-Men Never Existed?,"
    Thunderbird was never recruited by Professor X and was allied with
    Erik the Red. He was quickly frozen by Iceman.


In other media

Television

Thunderbird appears in the Spider-Man and His Amazing Friends episode
"The X-Men Adventure", voiced by John Stephenson. He is shown as a
member of the X-Men. In this incarnation, he possesses the ability to
shapeshift into a variety of North American animals and didn't
demonstrate any of his abilities from the comics. When it came to
Thunderbird's shapeshifting, Iceman muttered "I didn't know you could do
that!"

In X-Men: The Animated Series, Thunderbird is featured with Magneto's
evil mutants in the title sequence. He has a non-speaking role in the
episode "Slave Island" in which he is a mutant prisoner on Genosha.

Bust

In 2003, Dynamic Forces created a bust of Thunderbird. Nick Barrucci,
President of Dynamic Forces, said "The X-Men have such a rich, yet
tragic history. To commemorate, DF worked to create two busts presenting
the heroes of the X-Men who gave the ultimate sacrifice - their lives.
So, we are starting our 'Memorial' Diorama line with two of the biggest
heroes - Colossus and Thunderbird!".

