KEVIN MASTERSON is a fictional character that appeared in .
The character was first introduced as a supporting character in Thor
and appeared again in the spin-off series Thunderstrike, as the son of
Eric Masterson, the featured character of both series. Kevin Masterson
was later re-introduced in the MC2 series A-Next, as the superhero
THUNDERSTRIKE, a theme which would be revisited in the Heroic Age of
 in the eponymous limited series.


Publication history

Kevin Masterson was created by Tom DeFalco and Ron Frenz, first
appearing in Thor vol. 1 #392 in June 1988 as the son of the original
hero known as Thunderstrike, Eric Masterson. He would continue to appear
in a supporting role in Thor and spin-off series Thunderstrike.

The character would be re-imagined in What If vol. 2 #105, appearing
for the first time as a new version of Thunderstrike. An origin for
Kevin Masterson as Thunderstrike would appear in the follow-up MC2
series A-Next #1, where he would continue to be featured, as part of
the ensemble cast of characters. He would also appear in the MC2 series
Last Hero Standing and sequel Last Planet Standing; as well as, the
follow-up series Avengers Next._

The use of Kevin Masterson as a legacy version of Thunderstrike was a
theme revisited during the Heroic Age. It was announced that the
character would return in a new five-issue miniseries by co-creators Tom
DeFalco and Ron Frenz in November 2010. Promotionals leading into the
event began in August depicting the mace stating "One will rise..." and
"The World Still Needs Heroes." The first issues received generally
positive reviews, lauding the premise, characterization and plotting.
By series end the book was praised for plotting, diaglogue, and
characterization, with the contemporization of a classic character into
timeless.

Thunderstrike appeared in Fear Itself: The Home Front.


Fictional character biography

MC2

Kevin Masterson is granted the mace of his deceased father by Jarvis,
the Avengers' butler, per his father's will. The mace is stolen from
Kevin and even comes into the possession of Loki, who had created a
spell to tap the dormant power within the mace. Kevin leaps into the
midst of the spell, absorbing the mace and the magic it contains. He
becomes his own version of Thunderstrike and a founding member of a new
version of the Avengers.

As the series continues, Thunderstrike's biggest challenge comes when
the Avengers travel to a dark parallel dimension, where he encounters a
dark version of his father. The alternate Eric Masterson recognized
Thunderstrike as Kevin, who learns that in this reality, he, not Eric,
has died. The alternate Eric and Kevin bonded, and once the Avengers
defeat the dark dimension's ruler, Kevin stays behind to be with his
"father".

Kevin returns to his home reality, and rejoins the Avengers to aid in
the battle with Seth. When Galactus destroys Asgard, Thunderstrike
seemingly loses his powers in Last Planet Standing. He is kidnapped by
Ulik and Sylene, daughter of Loki, as part of a plan to restore
Asgard; but Kevin Masterson struggles against his captors. Ultimately
he is responsible for turning the tables on the villains. Thena,
daughter of Thor, who had also taken part in the battle against her
cousin, is able to restore Kevin's power, allowing him to become
Thunderstrike once again.

Thunderstrike (limited series)

[Kevin Masterson as Thunderstrike.] An embittered adolescent Kevin
Masterson is featured in the Thunderstrike limited series. The
character previously featured as an idealistic child is shown to have
anger, behavioral problems, and disillusioned outlook on
"spandex-covered glory hounds."

He is given his father's enchanted mace by Steven Rogers; which to their
mutual disappointment triggers no change in the character (although he
does receive an open invitation to the Avengers Academy, in which he is
later seen arriving on their New Campus in California.).

While on his way home, Kevin tries to save a mother and child from a
rampaging Rhino, and is transformed into a superhero. Kevin briefly
battles the Rhino, and shortly after Kevin is defeated, he realizes that
he is in his father's body. Mangog, a foe of Thor, resurfaces and
threatens New York City. The young hero teams with Thor, to battle the
monster. Kevin accepts his new identity as Thunderstrike, along with a
new image, and continues his adventures under the mentorship of
Brunnhilde the Valkyrie.

During the Fear Itself storyline, Thunderstrike ends up teleported
onto a station in the middle of the Pacific Ocean with Amadeus Cho,
X-23, Spider-Girl, and Power Man. They end up fighting a bunch of
samurai Shark Men. Kevin briefly appeared as part of the new class
of students when the Avengers Academy moves to the former headquarters
of the West Coast Avengers.


Powers and abilities

MC2

Kevin has the ability to change from his normal form into the superhuman
Thunderstrike. As Thunderstrike, he has the powers contained within the
mace. Thunderstrike is superhumanly strong and durable. He can generate
explosive bursts of sonic force (his "thunderbolts") from his hands, and
direct them as blasts of force, or focus the energy into his fists to
deliver super-strong punches. Thunderstrike can direct his blasts
downwards to launch himself into the air and, while he cannot fly, can
propel himself to great distances. He even learned how to modulate the
frequency of his sonic energies to shatter objects just by touching
them, without harming nearby people.

Thunderstrike (limited series)

Kevin's demonstrated powers in the limited series are the same as his
father's, including the reversion to his normal state if he is separated
from Thunderstrike for over sixty seconds. He did not use the ability to
fire energy blasts from the mace in the limited series. Thanks to
tutoring by the valkyrie Brunnehilde, he is also capable of changing his
appearance as Thunderstrike, finally choosing a form which is a modified
version of his normal self.

