TIGRA (GREER GRANT NELSON) is a fictional superheroine appearing in
American comic books published by . Introduced as the
non-superpowered crime fighter THE CAT in Claws of the Cat #1 (Nov.
1972), she was co-created by writer-editor Roy Thomas and artist Wally
Wood (Marie Severin was then brought in to help layout the art), with
her early adventures written by Linda Fite. She mutated into the super
powered tiger-woman Tigra in Giant-Size Creatures #1 (July 1974), by
writer Tony Isabella and penciller Don Perlin. Tigra was ranked 61st in
Comics Buyer's Guide's "100 Sexiest Women in Comics" list.


Publication history

The Cat was introduced in one of a trio of  aimed at a
female audience, alongside Night Nurse and Shanna the She-Devil.
 writer-editor Roy Thomas recalled in 2007 that editor-in-chief
Stan Lee...

The series lasted four issues, each with a different art team. Severin
was teamed with acclaimed 1950s EC Comics artist Wally Wood as inker for
the premiere, followed by Severin and inker Jim Mooney in issue #2;
newcomer Paty Greer co-penciling with 1940s Golden Age of Comic Books
legend Bill Everett, who also inked, in issue #3; and Jim Starlin and
Alan Weiss co-penciling the finale, with Frank McLaughlin inking. A
fifth issue of the series was drawn by Ramona Fradon but the title was
canceled due to lack of sales on previous issues. Severin attributes
the character's sensual appearance to Wood: "I remember saying, 'My God,
I drew this woman and Wally inked her like she’s wrapped in Saran Wrap.'
His storytelling always had lovely inking, nice blacks and everything,
but I didn’t have her that revealing. The boys loved his work,
though."

The Cat appeared alongside Spider-Man in  Team-Up #8 (April
1973) during her series's brief run. After a year's absence, she was
revamped as the super powered, part-animal Tigra in a two-part story in
Giant-Size Creatures #1 (July 1974; "Giant-Size" refers to the comic's
page-count, not giant creatures) and Werewolf by Night #20 (Aug.
1974). Writer Tony Isabella recounted "My memory may be a bit shaky
here, but I recall the Giant-Size books were approved and put on the
schedule without a lot of lead time... I think I got the assignment one
day, pitched the idea on the next, and one day later was sitting down
with Roy [Thomas] and Gil Kane to work out what Tigra would look
like." He also names Don Perlin and John Romita, Sr. as having a hand
in Tigra's appearance, and credits Thomas with coming up with the
name. Tigra made her solo-feature debut with a 15-page story in the
black-and-white horror-comics magazine Monsters Unleashed #10 (Feb.
1975), followed by a brief run in the umbrella series  Chillers
#3-7 (Feb.-Oct. 1976), and one more solo story in  Premiere #42
(June 1978). Like The Cat,  Chillers was cancelled due to
struggling sales.

Tigra went on to guest star throughout the  line, often appearing
in issues of the superhero-team comic The Avengers and later in the
cast of the spin-off West Coast Avengers. She starred in the
four-issue miniseries Tigra (May-Aug. 2002) by writer Christina Z. and
artist Mike Deodato, and has since guest starred in She-Hulk, Civil
War, various Avengers comics, and elsewhere.

Tigra appeared as a supporting character in Avengers Academy from
issue #1 (Aug. 2010) through its final issue #39 (Jan. 2013).


Fictional character biography

The Cat

[The Cat #1 (Nov. 1972). Cover art by Wally Wood] Greer Grant was a
native of Chicago, Illinois. She was a sophomore at the University of
Chicago when she met her future husband, policeman Bill Nelson. She left
college to marry him. The marriage was a strong one, flawed only by
Bill's overprotective nature. Bill was killed in an off-duty shooting,
and Greer had to find a job of her own. After weeks of searching, she
ran into her old physics professor, Dr. Joanne Tumulo.

Dr. Tumulo was working on the human potential experiments that turned
Shirlee Bryant into the super powered villainess called the Cat. Not
trusting the test subject chosen by her financial backer, Malcolm
Donalbain, Greer persuaded Dr. Tumulo to let her undergo the
experimental treatments as well. She emerged with superhuman physical
and mental capabilities. When Donalbain had Dr. Tumulo's lab destroyed
with dynamite, Greer donned one of dozens of the Cat costumes that she
had created and the doctor had appropriated and set out to put an end to
his scheme. With her new abilities, she adapted quickly to the strange
garb and wrecked Donalbain's headquarters. Rather than let himself be
touched by the Cat's raking claws, Donalbain committed suicide. A fire
set off by the ruined equipment destroyed Donalbain's headquarters.
Greer embarked on a brief crimefighting career as the Cat.

Another of Donalbain's Cat costumes surfaced years later, when Patsy
Walker discovered it while accompanying the Avengers. She donned it and
dubbed herself Hellcat.

Tigra

"The Tigra" is the historical defender/champion of the Cat People, a
humanoid race created by sorcery during the Dark Ages. Concerned about
the Cat People's uncontrollable population growth and savagery, a
community of sorcerers eventually banished the entire original Cat
People population to a demonic netherworldly realm.

The two very first Cat People, who were themselves very capable
scientists and sorcerers, were able to evade banishment through their
magic. They continued to live amongst humanity in secret and worked to
refine the Cat People's biology to make a peaceful integration into the
human population possible. They were constantly persecuted and required
a protector. Discovering that the original spell for transforming cats
into Cat People like themselves had been rendered inoperative, they
created a process combining science, sorcery, and focused mental power
that could transform a human female into a "Tigra," a humanoid
tiger-like being with abilities that far surpassed those of either race.

This unnamed first Tigra defended the Cat People with great
effectiveness, and allowed a new community to establish themselves on
Earth, separate from the group that had been banished. This new
population continued to live amongst humanity in secrecy through the
present-day, relying on enchantments that cast the illusion of a human
appearance.

Nothing is known about the other Tigras who may have existed, or even if
there have been more than two. At the time when Greer was transformed
into a Tigra, "The Tigra" was only remembered by the Cat People as a
distant but powerful legend. It has been strongly implied that only one
Tigra can exist at any given time.

Dr. Tumulo was revealed to be one of these modern Cat People. When
members of HYDRA tracked Tumolo down to obtain "The Final Secret" (the
Black Death plague, which was another creation of the first two Cat
People), Greer once again donned the Cat costume and drove them off.
However, she was mortally injured by a blast from one of their alpha
radiation pistols.

Greer regained consciousness in a Baja, California cave, surrounded by a
gathering of Cat People summoned by Tumolo. Rapidly dying from the
radiation's effects, Greer was offered one last hope of survival: a
combination of ancient science, sorcery, and mental power that would
transform her into Tigra, the Cat People's legendary half-human,
half-cat warrior. She readily consented, began wearing only her black
bikini from this time on, and arose from the ceremony as a
superhuman-powered human-animal hybrid. Striped fur covered her entire
body, her hands and feet bore razor-sharp claws, her teeth became long
and pointed, and her eyes were now cat-eyes. In addition to superhuman
strength and senses, she also gained many of the drives and instincts of
a cat. Soon after, she encountered the Werewolf.

Though initially unable to change back to her human self, the Cat People
ultimately gave her a mystical cat-headed amulet that allowed her to
change at will. She seldom made use of it, preferring her feline,
super powered form and mostly abandoning her life as Greer Grant-Nelson.

Greer resumed her superhero career, with most of the world unaware that
the woman who briefly fought crime as The Cat was now the feline Tigra.
She fought alongside most of 's heavy-hitters in wide-ranging
adventures. She first battled Kraven the Hunter, and then teamed
with Spider-Man against Kraven. She also became a friend and
associate of the Fantastic Four.

When the Avengers found themselves shorthanded, Moondragon used her
mental powers to compel a dozen unaffiliated heroes (apparently selected
at random) to travel to Avengers Mansion and audition for the vacant
position. Though he disapproved of Moondragon's methods, Captain America
offered Tigra a spot on the team.

Although Tigra's first tenure with the Avengers was brief, she served
well. She also aided the X-Men against Deathbird. Her time with the
Avengers was highlighted by her single-handedly saving the world from
destruction by the Molecule Man, who intended to consume the planet's
energy like Galactus. Alone among the Avengers, she was able to get
close enough to him to talk him out of his plan. She convinced him to
seek help from a therapist and the Molecule Man has ceased to be a
threat to this day.

The Avengers fought the Ghost Rider, who blasted the team with his
terror-inducing hellfire. The nature of Tigra's powers caused her to be
affected by the exposure on a far deeper level than her teammates. She
was left with great self-doubts about her qualifications as a member of
Earth's premier superhero team, particularly alongside such
heavy-hitters as Thor and Iron Man. Ultimately she resigned her
membership, leaving the team on good terms.

She resumed her modeling career, moving to San Francisco when employers
on the East Coast proved unreceptive to the idea of a cat person
model. There she befriended private investigator Jessica Drew,
and aided her on several cases, but had no better luck with modeling
work and accepted an offer from The Vision to become a founding member
of the Avengers' new West Coast-based team. Alongside the new West
Coast Avengers, she fought Graviton, and became a close friend of Wonder
Man. She also began a flirtation with Henry Pym.

While with the West Coast Avengers, she seemed to have shed the
remainders of her hellfire-induced self-doubt. However, the cat-like
aspects of her personality (such as a penchant for savagery and a need
for affection) had begun to dominate her human intellect, causing her
increasing distress. She sought help from her Avengers teammates in
overcoming the "cat" side of her personality, which had caused her to
try to become the lover of both Wonder Man and Henry Pym. She also
encountered and fought the Werewolf. She was transported with the
West Coast Avengers by Balkatar to the realm of the Cat People.
Ultimately, she came into contact with the banished colony of Cat
People, whose king agreed to resolve her crisis in exchange for carrying
out her historical function by murdering the Cat People's longtime foe,
Master Pandemonium. Though she initially accepted their terms,
when the critical moment came at an arena in the Cat People's realm,
Tigra refused to violate the Avengers' code against killing, and failed
to kill Master Pandemonium. The Cat People stripped her of her "Tigra
soul" (the peculiar articulation of her Tigra powers in this demonic
realm). She was reduced to her normal, pre-transformation human
state.

Hellcat, who had accompanied Greer and the West Coast Avengers, lent
Greer the super-suit that she used to wear as The Cat, and a battle
ensued. As the tide began to turn against the Cat People, their leader
released the "Tigra soul" as a means of confusing Greer. The tactic
backfired. The cat-suit had been designed by a Cat Person (Tumolo)
specifically to amplify Greer's human capabilities. So instead of Greer
being dominated by the "Tigra soul" as before, the suit caused her human
and feline personalities to successfully integrate together.

This time, Greer's transformation into the legendary cat-warrior was
much more complete than before. Her strength and abilities were far
greater than they were originally. Her appearance became more feline,
and she grew a tail like the rest of the Cat People. She also lost the
ability to shift back to a human form, though as before she showed no
sense of loss for her human identity.

Her transformation was so complete and the Tigra legend was so strong
amongst the Cat People that they immediately ceased hostilities. Tigra
continues to hold a position of significant reverence among the Cat
People.

The transformation also resolved the conflicts between the human and
feline aspects of her personality. Tigra could now exploit the full
range and ferocity of her abilities without fear of going so far that
she would lose control of her actions, and she could also indulge her
natural feline inclinations (such as hunting and chasing prey for
enjoyment) without feeling guilty or self-conscious. This
integration was confirmed in concrete ways immediately upon the team's
return to Earth. Tigra performed a sport dive off the highest span of
the Golden Gate Bridge, exhibiting no signs of any injury or fear of the
water. She also terminated her ongoing relationship with Hank Pym,
explaining that although she no longer felt a cat-like need to seek
affection at every opportunity, she had no conventional human desire to
be tied down to one mate, either.

She was captured by Graviton at one point, but freed the Avengers from
him. Around this time, the Arthurian Lady of the Lake summoned the
West Coast Avengers to England to aid the superhero team Excalibur. With
the others, Tigra ventured into the realm of limbo to help stop Doctor
Doom's mad plans to gain power at the cost of killing everyone in
Britain.

Tigra briefly left the West Coast Avengers in a dispute over the
Avengers' policy against killing. Tigra stated that she believed by her
very nature that killing prey was sometimes necessary. She joined
Mockingbird and Moon Knight in forming an independent group.

After returning to the team, Tigra inexplicably underwent another
"inversion" and transformed into a more beast-like feline shape, losing
her human intellect completely and becoming a danger to her fellow
Avengers. This was possibly due to the reality-warping machinations of
Immortus, who at the time sought to distract the team so as to have
unimpeded access to the Scarlet Witch. Tigra was forcibly shrunken down
to sub-housecat size by Hank Pym and kept in a cage in his lab while the
team tended to other urgent matters. She escaped and traveled into
suburbia where she lived as a wild animal. She was ultimately rescued
and restored to her former appearance and stability by noted witch
Agatha Harkness, who was an associate of the West Coast Avengers at that
time.

Tigra resumed her membership in the West Coast Avengers. On an
intelligence-gathering mission in Japan, she and Iron Man battled a team
of Asian supervillains known as the Pacific Overlords. During the fight,
Iron Man was incapacitated and Tigra suffered a deep, critical stab
wound to the abdomen before dispatching her attackers and making her
escape. She flew away in the Avengers' Quinjet, intending to report back
to headquarters on the Overlords' plans, but severe loss of blood caused
her to lose consciousness and crash land in Arnhem Land, an Aboriginal
territory in northern Australia. Rescued by Aborigines, she decided to
stay put while she recovered from her wounds, naming Spider-Woman Julia
Carpenter as her replacement. She briefly made Arnhem Land her home,
enjoying the company of the Aborigines and the pleasures of living wild.

After the West Coast Avengers disbanded, Tigra resumed her wide-ranging
adventures. Though no longer an active Avenger, she continued to
participate in Avengers operations when needed, as a member of the
team's extended family.

With the aid of a new transformation device to disguise her true
identity from her fellow officers, Tigra spent some time on the New York
City police force. She focused much of her time on a personal case and
in combating a force of vigilante police officers.

Later, mystical forces which attacked all Avengers brought her to the
Avengers Mansion. There, she and all the other Avengers were entrapped
by Morgan LeFay, to live out in an alternate universe where LeFay ruled,
fighting alongside the others as one of the "queen"'s guards under the
name "Grimalkin". After the defeat of Morgan, Tigra went off into space
with Starfox, to enjoy the pleasures found there. She appeared off and
on, having a series of adventures as part of the ad-hoc space-faring
Avengers Infinity team in which she helps in preventing an
extra-universal race from destroying all life in our universe.

Tigra returned to Earth with the Avengers Infinity team during the
Maximum Security storyline, during which she helped to save the Earth
from becoming a penal colony for alien criminals. She played a
particularly crucial role in events when the Infinity team were captured
after discovering the Kree's role in recent events, with the Kree
intending to lobotomize the team and make it appear as though they had
destroyed another planet; due to the attention the Kree had paid to
keeping the more powerful team members contained, they were unprepared
for Tigra, the weakest member, to escape her bonds by returning to her
smaller human form, allowing her to escape her shackles and free her
teammates in time to reveal the truth.

Civil War

Tigra fought along Iron Man's side during the Civil War. She supported
the registration act, although she expressed sincere concern about the
fate of Captain America and the other heroes who opposed the Act and
turned fugitive. Nonetheless, in Civil War Files, Tigra was listed not
merely as having registered to comply with the law, but also as having
become an agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. to actively aid in its enforcement.

Pretending to switch allegiances, she infiltrated Captain America's
Secret Avengers team as a mole. She passed information to Iron Man
undetected until the very end of the conflict, when she was discovered
and "outed" by Hulkling, Captain America's own spy among the
pro-registration forces. Captain America kept quiet, exploiting her
presence to feed disinformation to Iron Man about his team's plan to
rescue imprisoned heroes later that day.

The Initiative

Greer has been identified as one of the 142 registered superheroes who
are part of the Fifty State Initiative. She served as a founding
instructor at Camp Hammond, the training compound for The Initiative,
and resumed her romantic relationship with fellow superhero
Yellowjacket, unaware that he had been kidnapped and replaced by a
Skrull duplicate.

Tigra was captured by Chilean soldiers controlled by the Puppet Master,
who sculpted a figure in her likeness and thus put her under his mental
control. He used her and the other superhuman women he'd enslaved
(including Stature, Dusk, Araña, and Silverclaw) as elite guards at his
South American base of operations. Tigra and the rest of the heroes were
restored to their normal free will when Ms.  and her S.H.I.E.L.D.
strike team liberated the compound and killed the Puppet Master.

Later she was shot and severely beaten by the Hood in her home in
retaliation for having beaten Jigsaw, a member of his fledgling
super-criminal organization. While Tigra was incapacitated, the Hood
threatened the life of her mother, and Jigsaw stole the mystic talisman
she occasionally uses to transform to her human identity.

The Hood and his entire crew later appeared at her apartment, demanding
to know the location of the New Avengers' secret headquarters. Tigra
intentionally gave him information that led them into an ambush. She
joined in the battle and personally beat down the Hood, saving the life
of Iron Fist in the process. By the time of the Hood's second appearance
in her apartment, she had completely recovered from her injuries and had
either reacquired her talisman or replaced it with a close
facsimile.

Tigra continued to serve in the Initiative as a senior staff member of
the central organization, and was the leader of the Arkansas Initiative
team "The Battalion,", until the Initiative was taken over by
Norman Osborn and she learned of the Hood's role as his right-hand
man. She has also appeared as a member of She-Hulk's "Lady
Liberators" team.

After the Skrull invasion, Tigra reveals to Hellcat and Trauma that she
believes herself to be pregnant by Yellowjacket, though she is unsure if
the baby is the real Hank's or the Skrull imposter's. She tells Trauma
that she has decided to terminate the pregnancy regardless of the
father's identity. She later decides to leave the camp for Arkansas,
planning to train Razorback, who had been replaced by a Skrull and
recently returned, and was eager to take the imposter's place in The
Battalion. When she was nearly injured by Ragnarok's hammer she
seemed to show concern for the baby.

When Norman Osborn told her that he was going to take her baby for
genetic testing and that moreover he'd made the Hood the chief operating
officer of the Initiative, Tigra went on the run with Gauntlet despite
having been offered her choice of prestige assignments as a registered
hero. She co-founded the Avengers Resistance., choosing its name as
a means of restoring honor to the legendary team's traditions. Now
wanted as an outlaw, she began exacting personal vengeance from members
of The Hood's gang, starting by savagely attacking and beating a member
of The Brothers Grimm inside his home. She currently serves as the
team's de facto leader.

Tigra is later approached by Ultra Girl asking why she and the Avengers
Resistance are going after the villains in the Initiative. In response,
she shows her a video of the Hood savagely beating her. Now, she wants
to get back at them, by showing them that they are vulnerable...by
making them scared and broken. Tigra later ambushes Mandrill.

She claimed her final retribution against The Hood not on the
battlefield, but after he was rendered powerless and taken into custody.
After telling him that she was perfectly comfortable with the idea of
taking his life, the sight of his baby in the hallway outside convinced
her that dooming him to either a life in prison or on the run would be
far worse punishment, as he'd never get to hold his child ever again;
and to kill him would jeopardize her future with her own baby. Tigra
gave birth to what is apparently a normal Cat Person kitten during the
transition between Tony Stark's administration of The Initiative and
Norman Osborn's; the gestation period was a mere two months, due to her
feline physiology. She hid the infant from Osborn, entrusting its care
to the Cat People until the end of hostilities. She named the child
William, after her late husband.

Heroic Age

At the conclusion of The Siege, Tigra stated a new motivation not only
to restore the good name of the Avengers, but also to ensure that her
child will grow up in a safer world.

Following the arrest and incarceration of Norman Osborn, the dismantling
of his criminal superhero teams, and the repeal of the Superhuman
Registration Act, the President names Steve Rogers (the original Captain
America) as America's new head of national security. Rogers seeks to
assemble a collection of heroes to inspire the nation and the world as a
new organization of Avengers. Tigra is among the 25 heroes he personally
invites to join him in creating a new Heroic Age.

Alongside Hank Pym, Quicksilver, Jocasta, Speedball and Justice, Tigra
serves as part of the founding faculty of Avengers Academy, training a
new generation of heroes in the traditions of the world's elite
superhero team.

During this time, Tigra learns that the Skrull posing as Pym was indeed
William's father, but as he had disguised himself as Pym at the genetic
level, it means that William is half-human, rather than half-Skrull,
with Pym technically being the genetic father. After learning this,
Tigra asks Henry to take care of William in the event of anything
happening to her.

When a former associate of The Hood plans to release the video of
Tigra's beating commercially, Tigra arranges to have the footage air in
its entirety during a live interview, so that her own experience may
serve as an example to other trauma survivors and inspire them to seek
help. During this same interview, she announces her formation of a
series of "Always An Avenger" centers to provide veterans, children,
spouses and any other trauma victims with needed counseling and
resources.

Members of the existing Avengers Academy class react to the initial news
of the video by tracking the unpowered Hood down, attacking him, and
releasing video of the attack on the Internet, rather than taking the
escaped Hood into custody and returning him to jail. Tigra becomes
furious at their counter-heroic actions and by their refusal to
appreciate the seriousness of their transgression. She summarily expels
all those involved. Later, after talking with the rest of the
faculty staff, they decide to put all those involved on probation
instead.

She has slowly grown closer to Henry Pym and the two have resumed their
romantic relationship.

Tigra was one of ten female heroes recruited by Misty Knight to aid her
and Valkyrie in repelling a group of Asgardian Doom Maidens. At the end
of this adventure, Valkyrie comes to realize that Tigra and three of the
other heroines are among those deemed by the All-Mother to be worthy to
become shieldmaidens like herself, symbols of honor and valor and
courage, to one day be led by Valkyrie into battle and death.


Powers and abilities

Tigra's powers are the result of a combination of science, magic, and
mental energy utilized by Dr. Joeanne Marie Tumulo and other Cat People.
Her physical appearance is distinctly cat-like. A thick, sleek coat of
orange fur with black stripes covers her entire body. She has pointed
ears, sharper-than-normal teeth with pronounced upper and lower canines,
eyes with enlarged irises and vertically slitted pupils, and retractable
claws on her feet and hands instead of nails. Her claws and teeth are
sufficiently strong to puncture sheet steel, such as that found in a car
body. Tigra also has a long semi-prehensile tail, and can willfully
contact (but not grasp and lift) objects with it. Tigra's feline
physiology grants her various superhuman attributes including superhuman
strength, speed, stamina, agility, reflexes, and resistance to physical
injury. If she is injured, her physiology enables her to heal much
faster and more extensively than an ordinary human.

Tigra's senses of sight, smell, and hearing extend far into the
superhuman range and are also superior to those of ordinary cats. Tigra
can see farther, and with much greater clarity, than an ordinary human.
She has this same level of clarity at night, and her vision also extends
slightly into the infrared spectrum, allowing her to see in complete
darkness.

Her hearing is similarly enhanced, allowing her to hear a wider range of
frequencies than a normal human as well as clearly hear sounds that
would be far too faint for a human to detect. Exposure to intense,
high-frequency sound is far more painful for Tigra than a normal human.

Tigra's sense of smell is developed to the point that she can recognize
a person by scent alone, and track an individual across great distances
and through complex environments. She can also sense changes in a
person's mood through changes in scent.

Thick pads on her feet, combined with her natural grace, allow her to
move in almost complete silence.

The unusual feline-human hybrid configuration of her brain makes her
somewhat resistant to telepathic assaults. Though Tigra is not immune to
such tactics, attackers have been forced to focus their powers carefully
in order to use them effectively against her.

Like all cats, the interconnective tissues of Tigra's skeleton are
unusually resilient. On at least one occasion this allowed her to shift
her bones to slip out of mechanical restraints that would have
effectively held a normal human, though doing so was quite painful.
This resiliency also contributes to many of her other super-powered
abilities, such as her body's resistance to injury.

Tigra possesses a mystical talisman that allows her to change her
appearance from feline to human at will. She rarely uses it and only
appears in her human form when circumstances require it. She regards her
feline body as her natural form.

She formerly possessed what was referred to as a "cat-soul" in addition
to her "human soul." Though vaguely defined, her "two souls" were
consistently depicted merely as a means to describe her conflicting
human and her feline instincts, and not as separate personalities or
personas, and her "cat soul" was not the soul of any specific cat person
from the past. Regardless of the definition of her "two souls," they
were fully merged during Greer's second, more complete transformation
into the legendary figure.

Greer received a form of empathic ability when she became The Cat. She
retains this ability as Tigra. With careful concentration, she can sense
the emotions of others within her immediate proximity. She appears to
prefer to achieve this same effect through her enhanced feline
senses.

Tigra is an experienced and formidable hand-to-hand combatant, with a
unique fighting style that exploits her feline speed, agility, senses,
and instincts. She is a superhumanly adept athlete and gymnast. Like all
Avengers of her generation, she has sparred and trained extensively with
Steve Rogers, the original Captain America.

She is also a capable leader and pilot, qualified to operate Avengers
aircraft as well as interstellar spacecraft.

While working undercover in human guise, Tigra attended the New York
Police Academy to investigate the decade-old murder of her husband.
After bringing the murderers to justice, she completed her training
under her Greer Nelson identity. While she does not serve as an
active-duty police officer, she retains legal authority under both her
civilian and superpowered identities and unofficial ties to the police
community.

Tigra possesses mystical abilities that have largely gone unexplored. In
addition to using her mystic talisman to change her appearance from
feline to human and back, she has been shown magically summoning the
Balkatar, the cat-people's designated emissary to the Earthly plane.
When Dr. Strange abdicated his position as Sorcerer Supreme, the Eye of
Agamotto created a vision showing the many mystic beings who were
potentially worthy and/or capable of assuming the title. An image of
Tigra was included in this vision.

Tigra's physiology is more feline than human. When she became pregnant
via the Skrull pretending to be Hank Pym, she carried the baby to term
in two months, producing a single Cat Person son named William.
William does not have any traces of Skrull DNA as the Skrull pretending
to be Hank Pym imitated him down to a cellular level, thus genetically
William is Hank Pym's son. William matures more quickly than a human
baby would.


Other versions

 Adventures

Tigra also exists in the alternative "all-ages" version of the 
Universe. Though identical in appearance to the main-universe Tigra, she
wears a more modest suit which covers more of her torso than her
familiar bikini. She is working as an independent private investigator
when a masked man, purporting to be a famous author researching a book
about the Avengers, hires Tigra to secretly trail and collect
information about its members. After two weeks of following individual
Avengers and attempting to avoid detection, she observes the team
fighting a losing battle against The Griffin. She leaps in to join the
fray. The Griffin is subdued with her help and the team reveals to Tigra
that her mysterious client was actually Spider-Man; the assignment was
merely a ruse designed to evaluate her potential as an Avenger. She is
offered a spot on the team and eagerly accepts.

House Of M

In the House of M reality in which Magneto rules the world and mutants
are the dominant species, Tigra exploits her feline appearance to "pass"
as a mutant. She operates unnoticed in mainstream mutant society on
behalf of pro-human groups, first as a member of the Sapien Liberation
Army and then as a founding member of Luke Cage's underground "Avengers"
team as well as becoming his lover. During an FBI ambush set up by
Misty Knight, Tigra spots the Taskmaster taking aim at Cage from a
distant rooftop and leaps into the line of fire. She takes the bullet,
saving Cage's life, and dies at the scene.

 Mangaverse

She also appears in the " Mangaverse" alternate reality as Dr.
Strange's assistant/familiar, bound by a magical curse that keeps her in
were-tiger form until she completes a thousand good deeds. She survives
the first and second volumes of the  Mangaverse series, but is
murdered within the first few pages of the third and final volume; New
Mangaverse: The Rings of Fate.

 Zombies

In the  Zombies continuity, Tigra as a zombie is seen in
Ultimate Fantastic Four #23. She is part of a huge group of
superpowered zombies who have learned of the existence of a trio of
humans. The humans are successfully rescued by this universe's Magneto
and the Ultimate Fantastic Four. Later, Tigra and Zombie Shamrock
encounter a trio of travelers from mainstream  continuity;
Deadpool and two A.I.M. scientists. Tigra is partially obliterated by
the scientist's firearms.

Ultimate 

The Ultimate  universe version of Tigra appeared as a member of
the West Coast Ultimates. She was originally a young police officer
named MARIE GRANT, who after being convicted of using excessive force,
was sentenced to 20 years in prison. Nick Fury secured Marie's release
on the condition that she joined his new team of Ultimates, which led to
S.H.I.E.L.D. scientists granting her superhuman abilities.


In other media

Television

-   Tigra was a member of the Avengers in the animated series and tie-in
    comic The Avengers: United They Stand voiced by Lenore Zann. In
    this incarnation, Greer is an athlete who underwent genetic
    treatments to give her a competitive edge. These treatments went
    awry, leaving her with the form and abilities of a tiger. This
    series supported both a toy line and a brief tie-in comic. In the
    show, she had a very close developing relationship with Falcon, She
    also had a fear of water as seen in the episode "To Rule Atlantis"
    despite the fact that tigers can swim.

Video games

-   Tigra appears in Hawkeye's ending in Ultimate  vs. Capcom 3
    as a member of his West Coast Avengers.
-   Tigra is a playable character in  Super Hero Squad Online.
-   Tigra is a playable character in the Facebook game : Avengers
    Alliance.
-   Tigra is a playable character in the 2016 video game Lego 's
    Avengers.
-   A teenage version of Tigra appears in  Avengers Academy,
    voiced by Bella Thorne.

Toys and collectibles

-   In 2006, Bowen Designs released a Tigra mini-bust. It was sculpted
    by Jim Maddox, based largely on a 2001 sketch by Sean Chen.
-   An action figure based on Tigra's animated design was released as
    part of a line of Toy Biz "Avengers United" tie-in toys in 2000.
-   A Tigra action figure appeared as part of Toy Biz's  Hall Of
    Fame: She Force line in 1997. It was a repaint of an existing Toy
    Biz Black Cat action figure and as such featured many details that
    are incorrect, giving Tigra boots and a studded collar, as well as
    large rings of bushy fur around her calves and forearms where the
    thick fur trim on the tops of the Black Cat's boots and gloves
    would be.
-   In 2009, Hasbro released a Tigra action figure as part of their
     Legends line, reflecting her appearance in current mainstream
     continuity.

