THOMAS "TOM" CORSI is a fictional character appearing in American comic
books published by , most often appearing in X-Men stories.
Tom first appeared in New Mutants vol. 1 #19 (1984) and was created by
Chris Claremont and Bill Sienkiewicz.


Fictional character biography

Tom Corsi was a member of the police department in Westchester County.
The Demon Bear carried out an attack on Dani Moonstar. After her attack,
the New Mutants brought Dani to the Mid-County Medical Center. At the
hospital, Tom and Sharon Friedlander, an ER nurse, were kidnapped and
possessed by the Demon Bear. The Demon Bear attempted to transform Corsi
and Friedlander into his demonic slaves. After the New Mutants defeated
the bear, Tom and Sharon were returned to their natural human form,
though a couple of physical changes. The two of them—who are both
Caucasian -- now physically resemble Native Americans, along with being
enhanced to the level of perfect human specimens.

Later, Tom and Sharon are mentally attacked by the New Mutants long-term
adversary, Empath. The man twists the attraction the two have for each
other into a sexual obsession, which lasts for several days.

Afterwards, Tom spent some time at the Xavier's School for Gifted
Youngsters. Eventually, Tom found himself involved in a battle with the
Reavers on Muir Island. Tom was also one of the Muir Islanders being
manipulated by the Shadow King, at the time.

Being part of Charles Xavier's Mutant Underground, he was asked to work
at 'Our Mother of the Sacred Heart', a school for the handicapped. The
school eventually came under attack by a group of Acolytes looking for a
potential mutant. In the process, Tom kills one of the Kleinstock
Brothers. Sharon is slain by Joanna Cargill. The X-Men, summoned by
Sharon before her death, defeat the Acolytes.

Some time after, Tom was a gym teacher at the Massachusetts Academy, a
school for mutants run by the White Queen. He teaches physical education
to the mutants that reside there, a small group known as Generation X.
When that facility is closed down, he moves back to the Xavier
Institute. After many more students join Xaviers, Corsi again becomes a
physical education teacher. The student called Elixir is in his class.

After M-Day, Corsi is let go due to the loss of 90% of the student body.
Danielle Moonstar was also let go. His current whereabouts are unknown.


Powers and abilities

Due to the Demon Bear's enchantment of his body, Tom has moderately
enhanced strength. He claims he can lift twice the amount of the world
weight lifting record with relative ease.

