TORPEDO is the name of five fictional characters appearing in American
comic books published by .


Publication history

The first version of the Torpedo was not related to subsequent versions
and debuted in a one-shot story in Daredevil #59 (Dec. 1969).

The second version debuted wearing the Torpedo suit that was to become a
feature for successive characters, but also only appeared in one story
in Daredevil #126 (Oct. 1975). The third version, Brock Jones,
appeared in Daredevil #126, #127 (Nov. 1975) and #134 (June 1976) and
then starred in a storyline in  Premiere #39 - 40 (Dec. 1977 -
Feb. 1978). After a guest appearance in Defenders #62 - 64 (Aug. -
Oct. 1978) plot threads from the  Premiere story were resolved
in Rom #21 - 22 (Aug. - Sept. 1981). After appearing sporadically in
the title, the character was killed in Rom #50 (Jan. 1984).

The battlesuit reappeared in New Warriors #28 (Oct. 1992), now shared
between two characters under the alias of Turbo.


Fictional character biography

The first version of the Torpedo is a hitman sent by a crime boss to
assassinate a witness, but is defeated by the hero Daredevil.

The second version is MICHAEL STIVAK, a young scientist brought to the
United States by his uncle, U.S. Senator Eugene Stivak. Asked to design
a battlesuit for national defense, Michael Stivak develops a costume
equipped with turbo-jets that can propel the wearer through the air and
magnify physical blows. Learning that his uncle is the leader of the
criminal organization the Corporation, Michael Stivak designs an
inferior battlesuit for his uncle and secretly develops another suit.
Using the alias "Torpedo", Michael Stivak attempts to destroy the plans
for the suit and flaunts the suit's power by attacking two policemen.
Following Stivak's path of destruction, Daredevil attacks. During their
battle the building collapses on them.

BROCK JONES witnesses the battle between Daredevil and Torpedo and frees
the dying Michael Stivak. He explains the history of the battlesuit, and
entrusts the completion of his mission to Jones. Once in costume, Jones
is mistaken for Stivak and becomes a wanted criminal for both Stivak's
crimes and killing Stivak. Jones acquires the final set of plans, but
is attacked by Daredevil before he can escape. When their battle lays
waste to a suburban family home, Jones surrenders his mission, gives the
plans over to Daredevil, and retires from superheroing. However,
shortly after, a chance sighting of the Chameleon tempts Jones into
going back on his vow to never wear the suit again.

Senator Stivak sends another squad of Rocketeers to attack the new
Torpedo, but after several skirmishes Jones defeats them (with Stivak
dying of a heart attack). Torpedo briefly aids superhero team the
Defenders and reappears in the town of Clairton as an ally of the
Spaceknight Rom. It is revealed that the alien Dire Wraiths instigated
the creation of the battlesuit with the intent to use it against Rom.
The Torpedo allies with Rom and together they battle a squad of
Rocketeers. The Torpedo acts as the guardian of the town Clairton in
Rom's absence, and after thinking the Wraith threat ended, retires.
Jones is then murdered by a group of newly arrived Wraiths who use
sorcery.

The battlesuit is bequeathed to Jones's first cousin Phillip Jeffries,
and is found in storage by his son Michael Jeffries. Michael Jeffries
and friend Mickey Musashi shared the suit and adopted the codename
Turbo. Michael Jeffries was murdered by the Dire Wraith queen Volx,
who was posing as Brock Jones's son Danny (Michael's second cousin).

