TOXIN or the TOXIN SYMBIOTE is a fictional character in the 
Comics universe. He is the third major symbiote of the Spider-Man
series, the ninth known to have appeared in the comics outside of the
Planet of the Symbiotes storyline, and the first symbiote that
Spider-Man considers an ally, despite temporary alliances with Venom on
numerous occasions. The first host of the Toxin symbiote is former NYPD
police officer Patrick Mulligan. Toxin later bonded to Eddie Brock as
his second host after Patrick Mulligan was killed.


Fictional character biography

Much like their "father" Venom, Carnage produced offspring: a third
symbiote. Carnage felt only dislike and hatred towards his new spawn,
even before he "gave birth" to it, both fearing that it could become
much stronger than himself, and being generally disgusted at the thought
of giving birth (due to Carnage's host, Cletus Kasady, being male). At
the same time, Carnage's rival and "father" Venom became aware that
Carnage was "pregnant" and sought out Carnage to talk about this new
symbiote. Carnage had resolved to kill his spawn as soon as it was born.
Venom was doing his best to protect the new symbiote, with the intention
of raising it to become his new partner. Venom was also concerned that,
as the 1,000th symbiote of their line, the new symbiote could
potentially become psychotic and violent because of genetic
breakdown.

After the birth of his "son", Carnage felt too weak to kill his newborn
(due in no small part to his attempt to repress the birth after burying
himself). Since he could not kill his newborn, he implanted it into
Patrick Mulligan and fled, intending to kill him later and destroy the
new symbiote when he was up to strength.

Prior to being implanted with the alien symbiote, Mulligan was one of
New York City's finest cops, yet troubled with various personal
problems. His stressful job, along with the strain of his new family
(his wife, Gina, was pregnant with their first son, Edward) were taking
their toll. One night while on duty, he came across the site where
Carnage was giving birth to the new symbiote. Carnage, needing a host to
hide the symbiote to keep it from Venom, bonded it to Mulligan. Carnage
resolved to kill both Mulligan and the symbiote since they were not yet
strong enough to manifest a super-powered costume like the Venom and
Carnage symbiotes. Venom still hoped to use this new symbiote as a
partner, and fought Carnage to a standstill to protect Mulligan and the
symbiote, whom he christened Toxin, after himself.

At first, Mulligan didn't realize what had happened to him. Before long,
the Toxin symbiote had matured enough to gain both conscious thought and
the strength to form a symbiote costume on Mulligan's body. After
Carnage attacked Gina and Edward at their home, Mulligan realized the
symbiote was a danger to both himself and his family. During a
subsequent confrontation between Venom, Carnage, and Toxin, Venom
realized Mulligan was dedicated to a life of virtue, or as close as he
could come under the symbiote's influence. When it became clear that
Toxin was easily as strong as either of his predecessors, and was still
growing, Venom and Carnage formed a temporary pact to destroy him.

Spider-Man stumbled into the final confrontation among the symbiote
trio, and helped Toxin. After they fended off Venom and Carnage, Toxin
had a conversation with Spider-Man, filling him in on what had happened
to him. Spider-Man encouraged him, and Toxin resigned himself to a life
of battling his base symbiote urges while trying to harness his power
for good. He left his wife and child, and the police force, to try to
come to terms with his new life.

In 2005, after Spider-Man joined the New Avengers,  introduced a
six-issue Toxin limited series, which followed Toxin's battles with
various supervillains escaped from the Raft as a result of events at the
beginning of The New Avengers series. The series also portrayed his
constant battle to keep the symbiote under control; unlike Venom and
Carnage, the host and symbiote minds stayed separate in Toxin, and even
had conversations and arguments with each other. Throughout the
miniseries, he battled King Cobra, the Wrecker, Piledriver, and Razor
Fist.

At one point, trying to live with Toxin became too much for Mulligan,
who attempted suicide by throwing himself in front of a train. The Toxin
symbiote intervened at the last moment, saving Mulligan and claiming
that Mulligan didn't really want to die. When Mulligan pressed the
issue, it became clear that, unlike the Venom and Carnage symbiotes,
Toxin is not sure it could survive on its own and find a new host.

In the limited series, Razor Fist murdered Mulligan's father, but Toxin
begins to show signs of a heroic behavior; he tracked Razor Fist down,
but rather than slaughtering him (as both the symbiote and Razor Fist
himself urge), Toxin controls himself and turns Razor Fist over to the
police. Mulligan reconciled with his estranged wife Gina by
'introducing' her to the Toxin symbiote as a way of explaining why he
walked out on his family.

Mulligan and the symbiote co-operate peacefully with an agreement:
Mulligan will be in complete control of the symbiote, if he allows Toxin
two hours of "playtime" each night. However, in those two hours, Toxin
is not allowed to commit any acts of grand theft, arson, or homicide.

Civil War/The Initiative

Toxin is seen with his grandfather, Venom, on the cover of Avengers:
The Initiative #1, as part of the Fifty State Initiative. Toxin is
considered as a "potential recruit" for the Initiative program,
according to Civil War: Battle Damage Report.

Return/Eddie Brock

The Toxin symbiote later appears in an underground lab in Las Vegas,
having been taken and its host, Pat Mulligan, killed by Blackheart. The
Crime Master sends his underling Jack O'Lantern and blackmails his enemy
Venom into retrieving the symbiote. A fight with security personnel
results in Jack O'Lantern taking the Toxin symbiote and fleeing.
Blackheart is revealed to have bound pieces of the symbiote to clones of
X-23 while it was in his possession. He also retained a small sample of
the symbiote in a test tube because he needed an "alien's flesh" as an
ingredient in a ritual to bring hell to Earth.

Along with Venom, Anti-Venom, Hybrid and his sister Scorn, Toxin is
mentioned as being the next option to stop Carnage's rampage in the
Midwest after the Avengers are defeated. However, the US military is
unable to find Toxin, leaving it up to the hybrid symbiotes and Scorn to
stop Carnage.

After killing Hybrid and Scream, Eddie Brock follows Venom into Crime
Master's headquarters as part of his plan to destroy all symbiotes.
During the ensuing fight between Venom and Crime Master's underlings,
Crime Master locks Brock up and forcibly bonds him to the symbiote,
making him the new Toxin. Brock joins the Savage Six to fight
Venom, but is severely burned in the fight.

Eddie and the Toxin symbiote eventually track down Venom and discover a
group of creatures called the "symbiote slayers" that are determined to
destroy the symbiotes. Venom and Toxin have to team up to fight the
"slayers". After this, Toxin agrees to leave Venom alone, and Eddie
Brock as Toxin reclaims his title as the "lethal protector".


Powers and abilities

Toxin possesses the special abilities of his two symbiote predecessors:
he can stick to walls (which originally came from when Spider-Man was a
host of the Venom symbiote), can change his identity to that of a
completely different person, and also has unlimited webbing. Patrick
Mulligan's suit is red from the abdomen up and black from the abdomen
down. Eddie Brock's suit resembles a combination of Venom and Carnage
but with the entire body red - light on the chest, and dark on the arms
and lower body. Toxin can also blend in with his surroundings and become
undetectable, an ability he gained from his grandfather, and he can form
solid weapons from his limbs, an ability first seen in his father. Toxin
also seems to have some sort of quick-healing ability like his
predecessors, as his wounds from his first battle with Razor Fist healed
remarkably quickly. Unlike the others, Toxin can track anyone — not just
other symbiotes or symbiote hosts — within the entire city of New York
and possibly farther, as long as he has something to begin from.

Unlike many of the other symbiotes, Toxin does not try to take over the
mind of his human host. Instead, the symbiote actually thinks and voices
its opinions to the human host (as evidenced in Toxin's "Cut to the
Chase" storyline). The symbiote usually speaks when the host is in his
"human form", and acts very immature and childlike because of its
nascent existence, once refusing to aid Pat in battle until he
apologized for an earlier argument. In addition, he seems to have a
stronger resistance to sonics and intense heat compared to Carnage,
though this does not mean that Toxin is more resistant to violent urges:
it can get carried away with violence and fighting crime, even if it's a
petty crime. When he's not angry or fighting, Toxin is slim and
smooth-lined, although still well muscled, closely resembling Carnage or
Spider-Man in his symbiote costume. When he becomes upset or aggressive,
he grows into his much bigger and stronger form (like Venom), with
vicious fangs and long curving claws.

The symbiote recently developed a venomous bite after bonding to Eddie
Brock.


In other media

Toys

Two action figures of Toxin have been produced. The first, in the final
series of the Spider-Man Classic line, represents the Patrick Mulligan
version of the character. The second, released as part of the 2014
Spider-Man Legends series, depicts the Brock version.

Video Games

The Patrick Mulligan incarnation appeared in : War on Heroes.
The Eddie Brock incarnation of Toxin appears in  Heroes as a
costume for Venom.

Toxin is set to appear as a playable character in Spider-Man
Unlimited. However, it is currently unknown which version of the
character will be featured.

