TRANCE (HOPE ABBOTT) is a fictional character appearing in comic books
published by the . A mutant, Hope attended the Xavier
Institute before its closing. She retained her powers after M-Day and is
a member of the X-Men's training squad.


Fictional character biography

Hope was raised in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan. When Hope's powers
manifested, it appeared as if a ghost had come out of her body, giving
her father a heart attack. She was then sent to the Xavier Institute by
her parents believing that she would be "cured."

While at the Institute, Hope was put in the Paragons Squad under the
watch of Wolfsbane. Hope then took on the codename Trance. When it was
outted that Wolfsbane and a student (Elixir) had been in a relationship,
Wolfsbane decided to leave. Magma then took over as the squad's advisor.

When the events of Decimation transpired, she was one of only 27
students to keep her powers. Greatly weakened by the losses, Emma Frost
placed all of the remaining students into an all-out brawl to determine
who would become the team of X-Men in-training. Hope did not make the
team yet, like all of the other students who retained their powers,
still resides at the Institute.

In response to M-Day, the government began gathering all information
they had on the remaining mutants. Additionally, the Sentinel Squad
O*N*E, a team of human-piloted Sentinels, was sent to "watch over" the
X-Men and the handful of refugees symbolically known as The 198.
According to said files, Hope was willing to work with other mutants in
training sessions but had not yet received any combat experience.

Hope's interests include old films and classic music, and it appears she
is rather culturally sophisticated. Her classmates voted her
'best-dressed' in the yearbook.

Quest for Magik

Trance is among the students who were captured by Belasco and
transported to Limbo. As per X-23's request, Trance uses her astral
projection to warn the students who weren't captured of Belasco's
return. Thanks to Trance, the students were successfully saved and
brought back by the X-Men.

Messiah Complex

Trance was present at the Institute when Predator X attacked the school.
Trance barely got out of the way in time. Unfortunately the school was
shut down and all the students were sent home.

Killing Made Simple

Blindfold had a vision and informed the X-Men that Trance was going to
be in trouble. While having dinner with her family, Trance's home was
attacked by Orphan-Maker on Nanny's orders, but Trance wasn't his
target, her parents were. Luckily Wolverine had been sent by the X-Men
to watch over her. Springing to action, Wolverine tries to fight off
Orphan Maker but is overpowered. With a change of plans, Trance and
Wolverine are kidnapped. Trance is later seen tied to a chair with
Wolverine chained to the ground. Trance, believing that Wolverine will
save them, refuses to use her powers. After realizing that Wolverine
cannot help her, she astral projects outside her body and begins
blasting Nanny and Orphan-Maker. The two villains eventually eject in an
escape pod, leaving the ship to crash. Using her energy blasts, Trance
disables the self-destruct timer. The ship crashes in a lake, but Trance
and Wolverine are safe.

Utopia

Trance later relocates to San Francisco along with all the other
X-Men.

Trance is seen with Dragoness and Toad, who are being pursued by
H.A.M.M.E.R. agents. After Dragoness is taken out, Trance goes into her
astral form only to have her power disrupted when her body is shot with
tasers. Gambit shows up and knocks out the H.A.M.M.E.R. agents. Trance,
in her astral form, lies on the ground asking for help when Ariel and
Onyxx appear and take her body away to safety. Later, Mindee Cuckoo
informs Rogue that Trance never made it back to base and that she is
detecting Trance's thoughts somewhere downtown, prompting Rogue and her
team to search for her. Trance's power disrupted Ariel's attempt to
teleport her to safety. Rogue finds Trance and her powers are flaring
out of control creating powerful uncontrollable bio-electric blasts.
Rogue tries to help calm Trance and help her gain control when Ms 
appears. After taking out Gambit and Danger, Rogue and Ms  fight,
unfortunately Rogue is losing until Trance regains control and jumps in
to help Rogue. Trance learns that her astral form is able to punch Ms
 when they are both intangible. After Gambit stuns Ms , they
teleport back to base where Trance receives medical attention.

Necrosha

Trance is seen with Husk and the New X-Men battling the resurrected
Synch and Skin.

Trance is part of a team of X-Men that investigates Blindfold's vision
about Muir Island. Trance, along with most other members of this
team, is briefly possessed by Proteus when he attacks. This is
possession is interrupted by Rogue's use of Psylocke's psychic knife.
The team eventually defeats Proteus before returning to Utopia.

Second Coming

During the events of Second Coming, Cannonball recruits Trance along
with Northstar, Dazzler, Anole, Gambit, and Pixie on a mission to
recover Magik from Limbo. Hope is initially reluctant to accept this
mission, but agrees to go as long as she can leave her body on Earth.
Upon arriving in Limbo, the team becomes separated when they are
overwhelmed by Limbo's demonic inhabitants. Trance fights alongside
Pixie and tries to protect Pixie from the influence of Magik's demon,
N'Astirh. The effort, however, causes Trance to disappear from Limbo and
reawaken in her body in Utopia.

Wolverine and the X-Men

Trance is currently a student at the Jean Grey School for Higher
Learning. 


Powers and abilities

[Trance using her powers] Trance has the power of astral projection and
as her code name suggests, she goes into some kind of altered state of
consciousness or somehow otherwise nullifies her body in order to
release her astral self. This observation was further affirmed when she
asked Emma Frost if she could leave her body outside the danger room
during an exercise. Her astral form is capable of flight and can pass
through magic barriers. Her astral form was able to physically punch
Moonstone's intangible form. Trance's astral form is additionally able
to project destructive energy. When hit with tasers by H.A.M.M.E.R.
agents during X-Men: Legacy #226 in the middle of entering her trance
state, her powers flare out of control, disrupting Ariel's attempt to
teleport her to safety. She also creates arcing energy surges that stun
soldiers and even bend nearby metal and concrete. According to Danger
and Rogue, this appears to be a new part of her power which she has not
learned to control.

She can also perceive auras and energy patterns that are invisible to
the naked human eye such as the emotional state of others from their
auras, heat signatures and energy patterns in the air. Doctor Nemesis
further speculates that Trance's powers seem to react to spatial warps
and energy fields; however, he doesn't know if this is a permanent or a
temporary development.


Television

-   She appears in the episode Greetings from Genosha from Wolverine and
    the X-Men.

