TRITON is a fictional character, an Inhuman appearing in American comic
books published by .


Publication history

He first appeared in Fantastic Four #45 (December 1965), and was
created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby.


Fictional character biography

Triton is member of the Inhumans' Royal Family, son of Mander and Azur,
brother to Karnak, and cousin to Gorgon, Black Bolt, Maximus, Medusa,
and Crystal. Triton was born on the island of Attilan and was exposed to
the Terrigen Mist as an infant. The mists altered his body, turning his
skin green and giving him the ability to breathe underwater, as well as
surviving the cold temperatures and incredible pressures of the deep. An
unfortunate side effect was the loss of the ability to survive in a
non-aquatic environment. As a result, he lived in a specifically
designed area of the Inhumans' city-state of Attilan, requiring a
special breathing apparatus to leave the water. The apparatus,
cumbersome at first, was eventually reduced in size by fellow Inhuman,
Maximus the Mad. Triton's mutation after Terrigenesis was so severe that
his parents disallowed his brother Karnak from going through it.

Triton later first encountered the Fantastic Four. During an
accidental encounter, he tells his fellow Inhumans he recognizes the
Hulk from Reed Richard's micro-film files. Triton acquires an
artificial life support system which enabled him to exist out of
water. He then first left the Great Refuge with the other members of
the Royal Family, acting as a scout for them. He was freed from the
"negative zone" barrier, along with the rest of the Inhumans. He then
aided the Fantastic Four in battle against Blastaar.

Triton later met the Sub-Mariner, and then battled Plantman's
Leviathan. He aided the Inhuman Royal Family in defeating Maximus's
attempt to overthrow the Great Refuge. He then singlehandedly
captured Maximus, and battled the Mandarin alongside the Royal
Family. He traveled to New York to warn the Avengers of the
Inhumans' involvement in the Kree-Skrull War.

Triton later battled Blastaar and the Kree Kaproids. He traveled to
New York City with the Royal Family seeking aid for the earthquake
threatened Attilan, and battled Shatterstar. He was imprisoned by
Maximus, and then aided the Royal Family in the defeat of Maximus
and his evil Inhumans. He left Earth with the Inhuman Royal Family
to prevent the Kree subjugation of the Inhumans, and battled various
aliens. He battled Kree agents, and returned to Earth and
battled the Kree agent, the Pursuer. He battled the Hulk alongside
the Royal Family.

Triton participated in the Inhuman exodus when Attilan was relocated to
Earth's Moon. He grappled with the Avengers under Maximus's mind
control. He accompanied Medusa to Earth when she fled Attilan to
avoid compulsory abortion by order of the Genetic Council. Triton
battled mutated aquatic life caused by toxic waste.

Triton maintains a friendship with Namor the Sub-Mariner, and has
occasionally been involved in stories with 's other ocean-dwelling
characters. He had pivotal roles in major crossover stories such as the
Kree-Skrull War, and Atlantis Attacks.

Triton has expressed discontent to Black Panther and Storm when they
visit Attilan's current moon location. He reveals that several
underground chambers have been flooded for his benefit, but it is just
not the same.

During the Secret Invasion storyline, the Inhuman royal family forges
an alliance with the Kree to recover Black Bolt from the Skrulls'
clutches. Together, they discover a weakness in the Skrull's defense and
split up to recover the resources to exploit it. Triton is sent to the
all-water planet Pelagia where he encounters a race of mermen-like
beings that closely resemble him in appearance. He develops feelings for
the native Dascylla. Although outnumbered by the hostile Pelagians,
Triton manages to overcome them and find what he came for. Triton's
breathing harness is then upgraded by the Kree allowing him to operate
in the vacuum of space thus enabling him to physically attack the
Skrulls' ship during the rescue.


Powers and abilities

Triton is a member of the Inhuman race, artificially mutated by the
Terrigen Mist, giving him scaly greenish skin, a small dorsal fin
running from the base of the skull to the forehead, membranous fins
extending from his temples, and webbing between his toes and between his
fingers. Triton is able to breathe water, to swim at great speeds, and
to withstand the pressures of the deep sea. He cannot naturally breathe
air and needs near-constant contact with water to survive, and cannot
exist out of water without artificial aids. His resistance to deep sea
pressure also gives him superhuman strength and speed underwater. He has
the ability to survive underwater indefinitely, and the ability to
withstand the temperature and pressure of ocean depths. His vision is
more sensitive to the green portion of the visible spectrum, enabling
him to see in relatively dark ocean depths.

Triton has undergone basic Inhuman royal militia training. When on land,
Triton employs a water circulation system consisting of lengths of
plastic tubing which run along his torso and limbs, maintaining a
constant mist of water and providing a supply of fresh water to his
gills.


Other versions

Amalgam Comics

In the Amalgam Comics continuity, TRISERINAK - a combination of 's
Serifan and 's Triton and Karnak - is a member of the superhero
group Un-People in Amalgam Comics universe.

Earth X

In the alternate future of Earth X Triton has undergone a change,
becoming even more fish-like. He assists the Royal family in an
investigation of just what has happened to Earth.

Heroes Reborn

Triton and his Inhuman allies revere Galactus and his heralds in this
alternate universe.

Later, in Heroes Reborn #3, Triton is seen as one of the many heroes
on board the well-outfitted, shrinking spaceship belonging to Doctor
Doom. He, along with many other heroes and Inhumans, must return to the
main  universe or all those within the alternate one will be
endangered. Despite Doom's lust for power endangering the mission,
everyone who has to return safely does.

 Zombies

In  Zombies, Triton appears as part of the S.H.I.E.L.D.
Resistance Nick Fury sets up in order to combat the infection. Triton
later appears, infected, attacking Cyclops during the final battle
between the infected and the uninfected. Later, he travels with the
zombie Inhumans to eat human clones that are under the control of the
Kingpin. A zombie Triton later makes an excursion to the 
Apes world, along with infected super-powered beings. They kill one
person ( Chimp). Triton's body is heavily damaged and all the
zombies are sent back to their home realm by local heroes. However his
arm is left behind and this is used as a dimensional locater by the
now-infected 'Iron Mandrill' in an ongoing attempt to re-open and
potentially dominate the zombie universe.

Ultimate 

An Ultimate  version of Triton appeared, along with the other
Inhumans, in Ultimate Fantastic Four Annual #1. The Inhumans first
encounter the Fantastic Four over the problem of Crystal who has run
away from home.


In other media

Television

-   Triton has appeared in the 1990s Fantastic Four TV series, voiced
    by Rocky Carroll in the first appearance and by Mark Hamill in
    later appearances.
-   Triton appears in the Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H._ episode
    "Inhuman Nature", voiced by James Arnold Taylor. In this show,
    he does not need to be in contact with water to survive and has
    actually spent most of the episode without water.
-   Triton appears in Ultimate Spider-Man voiced again by James Arnold
    Taylor. In this version, Triton specifically refers to Karnak as his
    cousin rather than brother. In the episode "Agent Venom," he can be
    seen as one of the young superheroes that S.H.I.E.L.D.
    is monitoring. Triton makes his first full appearance in the episode
    "Inhumanity" as an exchange student from Attilan helping Spider-Man
    deal with Molten Man at the waterfront. Triton is under the
    impression because he is such a good fighter in Attilan, he doesn't
    need any back up. Upon returning to the Triskelion (which is where
    the S.H.I.E.L.D. Academy is located), Triton is revealed to be
    mistrusted by the other students. However, Triton is thrown
    into S.H.I.E.L.D. custody by Nick Fury when Attilan is above New
    York and Medusa declares war. Being the only one who believes he is
    not a spy, Spider-Man convinces Nick Fury to give the two time to
    solve this matter peacefully. It is revealed that Maximus the Mad
    had taken control over the royal family, and the true mastermind
    behind the attack. However, Spider-Man and Triton are able to
    stop him. As an apology from Nick Fury, Triton is made the Attilan
    ambassador to S.H.I.E.L.D.
-   Triton appears in the Guardians of the Galaxy episode "Crystal
    Blue Persuasion." He is among the Inhumans who came down with a
    plague that caused them to grow crystals on their body. Triton was
    seen at the end of the episode when Medusa thanked the Guardians of
    the Galaxy for their help on Black Bolt's behalf.

Video games

-   Triton appears as a non-playable character in the video game
    : Ultimate Alliance, voiced by Tom Kane. Gorgon mentions
    that Triton will accompany him and Crystal into fighting Doctor Doom
    while the heroes went to the Skrull Homeworld.

