ULTIMATE IRON MAN (ANTONIO "TONY" STARK) is a fictional character
appearing in American comic books published by . The
character is the Ultimate  version of the fictional superhero Iron
Man that first appeared in the fourth issue of Ultimate 
Team-Up, written by Brian Michael Bendis and drawn by Mike Allred. He
later appeared in the Ultimates and often appears in the same titles
they do. In the Ultimate Universe, the character is a wealthy business
tycoon and inventor who created the Iron Man power armor. Like his
mainstream counterpart, he has a drinking problem and life-threatening
affliction; in this case an inoperable brain tumor. With a life
expectancy anywhere between six months and five years, he chose to
become a philanthropist and superhero.

While the character hasn't yet been featured in his own ongoing series,
Stark's early life and origins were initially explored in the Ultimate
Iron Man miniseries written by science fiction author Orson Scott Card.
However, this origin story is no longer considered canon in the Ultimate
 Universe and was retconned as only being a fictional Japanese
anime version. On the other hand, the character's adult years have
been covered mainly by Mark Millar (in his Ultimates work) and Warren
Ellis.


Fictional character biography

Ultimates

In the limited series The Ultimates, when Tony Stark first hears that
Nick Fury is assembling a team of superheroes, he volunteers his
services. After helping defeat the Hulk, Stark develops a friendship
with Thor and Steve Rogers. Though he has many great accomplishments,
during the first volume of the Ultimates, he remains unsure of himself,
clearly shown when he's heavily beat down and throws up in his own
helmet. He acts arrogant, but also constantly doubts his own abilities.
In the last issue he seems to decide that he can't continue fighting
until a soldier asks, "If you don't do it, who will?". Later, he fights
against the X-Men in Ultimate War, captures the Rhino in Ultimate
Spider-Man, and fights along with Spider-Man himself in Ultimate Six.

Stark also appears in Ultimate Wolverine vs. Hulk, where he supports
Wolverine being sent to kill Bruce Banner. Stark also criticizes the law
being used to stop the Hulk, during which he mockingly suggests creating
a Superhero Registration Law referencing the mainstream Stark's support
of the Superhero Registration Act. The Ultimate Galactus trilogy also
shows the first signs of an early friendship between Stark and Reed
Richards (despite the age difference), in addition to him successfully
sneaking aboard a Kree spacecraft in Ultimate Secret, and decapitated
a Silver Surfer clone in Ultimate Extinction.

The Ultimates 2

In The Ultimates 2, Tony Stark quickly falls in love and proposes to
Natasha Romanova. Just prior to proposing, Stark gives her a black suit
of armor, almost identical to his own. The flight test of the suit
includes flying over her homeland, where Stark had paid the three
million inhabitants of her hometown to stand in a field, spelling out
his proposal, which she immediately accepts. When the Liberators invade
America, Natasha shoots Edwin Jarvis and then tries to get Stark, at
gunpoint, to transfer much of his fortune to her. However, Stark has
ultimate control of the nanites in her bloodstream that allows her to
interface with her armor. Using these nanites, Stark incapacitates
Romanova and retrieves the enemy plans from her mind with the intention
of fighting back against the Liberators. He takes "Iron Man 6", a
massive helicarrier-sized ship armed with dozens of laser cannons and
machine guns, and wipes out the air force of the Liberators in
Washington, D.C. (as well as his opposite Liberator number Crimson
Dynamo). He then heads to New York to aid the heroes there. After the
battle Stark agrees to finance the now independent Ultimates, and
seemingly very quickly gets over Natasha's betrayal with the help of a
pretty blonde.

Ultimates 3 and Ultimate Human

Ultimate Power marks the first appearance of the independent
Ultimates, fighting against an alternate universe Squadron Supreme. This
soon follows with the start of Ultimates 3 which sees Stark becoming a
full-blown alcoholic. A sex tape that he made with Natasha during their
time together also makes it into the public, causing a PR nightmare for
the rest of the Ultimates. In Ultimate Human, which was published
around the same time, the focus is on Bruce Banner as he pleads with
Stark to cure him of his Hulk affliction just before Ultimatum, which
dealt with Magneto's attempt at complete destruction.

New Ultimates and Ultimate Armor Wars

After Ultimatum, the Ultimate Comics: Armor Wars mini-series
featured Iron Man racing across the world to find his stolen armor in
order to save the remains of his enterprise. In Ultimate Comics: New
Ultimates, he began a relationship with Carol Danvers and fought
against the returning Loki. In the pages of Ultimate Comics:
Spider-Man, he was also involved with Captain America and Thor in
training Spider-Man to become a better hero. During this time, his
brother Gregory Stark became the new financial manager for the new
Avengers team in Ultimate Comics: Avengers, which also featured Rhodey
(Tony's former best friend) and a new Black Widow.

Ultimate Comics: The Ultimates

In Ultimate Comics: The Ultimates, Tony Stark is among the central
characters and a leading member of the Ultimates. In "The Republic is
Burning", he saves a now mortal Thor from the destruction of Asgard.
With his Asgardian brethren exterminated by the Children of Tomorrow and
Yggdrasil drained of the Odinforce, Thor is no longer a God and Stark
takes it upon himself to help Thor resume his role as a God of Thunder.
He reveals that he has been keeping Thor's harness and hammer (pieces of
EUSS technology that gave him his powers in The Ultimates and The
Ultimates 2) and gives it back to the mortal Thor, with some
modifications. Stark joins Nick Fury's latest Ultimates roster alongside
Thor, Spider-Woman, Hawkeye, Black Widow and Falcon.

Following the reunification of the United States, Tony Stark builds a
new red-white-and-blue version of his Iron Man armor and goes by the
name "IRON PATRIOT". The armor is badly damaged in a confrontation with
the Dead Hand Hydra terrorist group, and is later cut in half during
repairs by the Black Knight.

Ultimate Comics: X-Men

Following the establishment of the mutant nation of Utopia, Tony Stark
is appointed as a liaison between Utopia and the United States by
President Steve Rogers. Within Utopia, Stark assumes the role of
business affairs and military consultant for the fledgling nation. With
Kitty's help, he fakes an explosion in one of Utopia's greenhouses that
seemingly destroys the 'super seed' developed by the mutants. Later he
promises Kitty that once the attention has shifted away from Utopia, he
will start releasing the seeds through back channels and have them
freely distributed in accordance to Kitty's wishes.


In other media

-   In Ultimate Avengers and Ultimate Avengers 2, the identity of
    Iron Man (voiced by Marc Worden) is a composite character of both
    his Earth-616 and Ultimate incarnations where he has the appearance
    of the Ultimate  version and the shrapnel problem of the
    Earth-616 version.
-   In The Invincible Iron Man, one of Tony Stark's multiple Iron Man
    armors resembles Ultimate Iron Man's original suit.
-   Ultimate Iron Man's character served as a big inspiration for Iron
    Man's concept in Iron Man and Iron Man 2. Also, both Iron
    Man's Mark VII armor in The Avengers and Mark XVII "Heartbreaker"
    armor in Iron Man 3 resemble Ultimate Iron Man's original armor.
-   Ultimate Iron Man's original armor is one of Iron Man's alternate
    costumes in : Ultimate Alliance, Iron Man, Iron Man 2
    and Iron Man 3.

