ULYSSES BLOODSTONE is a fictional character appearing in American comic
books published by . He is an immortal monster-hunter.


Publication history

Ulysses Bloodstone first appeared in  Presents #1 and was
created by Len Wein, Marv Wolfman, and John Warner.

John Warner has explained the development of Ulysses Bloodstone: "Len
Wein and Marv Wolfman came up with the spark that would become
Bloodstone—the premise of a man who fights monsters—and together he and
I began to develop a series idea to take up ten pages of Where Monsters
Dwell."_  Mike Vosburg was the artist assigned to the first
installment, and then Pat Boyette was to do the rest of the series.
Warner developed ideas for the ongoing story describing the planned
ideas as "grand and epic and sweeping in scope" and "very cosmic and
complex."

Where Monsters Dwell was cancelled at the same time as The Living
Mummy,_ another title on which Warner was working. However, he was
informed that he would get the chance to run part of the story in the
first two issues of a new title,  Presents._ The first two parts
were finished, and they would run in issue one; Warner had to draw
everything to a satisfactory close in the second issue. He says, "In the
first two episodes I had laid the groundwork for this grand sweeping
epic ... and all of a sudden I had to tie it off in eighteen pages."
This left a lot of the story untold, and he could only introduce two of
the characters he wanted to bring in, Brad Carter and P.D.Q. Warner. Due
to the delays Boyette was unavailable for the second issue, whose
artwork Sonny Trinidad drew instead.

Most of the rest of the planned stories would appear in the back-up
story in The Rampaging Hulk (1977) which led up to Bloodstone's death.
This was told in #8, after the feature was replaced in #7 by an
unrelated feature, and now written by Steve Gerber rather than Warner.
Other parts of his history would be told through flashbacks in titles
like Captain America: Sentinel of Liberty (1999), and more of the
background to his death was filled-in by The Bloodstone Hunt storyline
in the regular Captain America comic (1989). His adventures with the
Monster Hunters were told in  Universe (1998) and : The
Lost Generation (2000).


Fictional character biography

[Cover to  Presents: Bloodstone #1, October 1975] In the Hyborian
Age, a meteorite landed on Earth in Northern Vanaheim on the European
continent, circa 8250 B.C. It was controlled by an evil
extra-dimensional entity called the Hellfire Helix, which wanted to
conquer the world. To that end, it sent its agent, Ulluxy’l Kwan Tae
Syn, to get the meteorite and find a host for it. However, a local human
hunter/gatherer found the rock, and fought Ulluxy’l Kwan Tae Syn. In the
fight, the meteor was smashed, a part of it (also called the Bloodgem)
was imbedded in the human's chest, and the explosion killed the human's
tribe. The human vowed revenge on Ulluxy’l Kwan Tae Syn. Because of the
gem in his chest, he became immortal, and later became known as Ulysses
Bloodstone.

Ulysses Bloodstone was one of the most successful mercenaries in the
world. His long life allowed him to assemble a vast fortune, which he
used to set up a series of outposts, fully staffed and equipped, in
various corners of the world. He gained mastery of most of the world's
weaponry, and a large portion of the world's martial arts and languages.

Over the next 10,000 years, Bloodstone would travel all over the world,
looking for Ulluxy’l Kwan Tae Syn. As a result, by the 20th Century, he
had become immensely wealthy, and could speak most of the world's
languages. In his hunt for Ulluxy’l Kwan Tae Syn, he had become a
mercenary, adventurer, and soldier-of-fortune, proficient with most of
the world's weaponry. Because of Ulluxy’l Kwan Tae Syn's ability to
summon monsters from another dimension, which Ulluxy’l did specifically
to keep Bloodstone away from him, Bloodstone gained a reputation as a
monster hunter.

Sometime in the 1930s, he battled Nosferatu and his clan of vampires.
In 1933, he gained a sidekick: Fat Cobra, who later became one of the
Immortal Weapons. He embarked on a series of adventures with him that
took them to the far corners of the globe, traveling to the Savage Land
and Monster Island and fighting Mole People and Fin Fang Foom. In the
1950s, he became a member of the Monster Hunters, of whom he remained a
member till they disbanded.

Bloodstone met two future allies, Brad Carter and P.D.Q. Warner, who
sought giant humanoid monsters to battle. A fight between Possessor
and Bloodstone occurred during this time in which he was able to defeat
his foe with the help of the Bloodgem. He battled the giant undersea
humanoid monster Goram while seeking another Bloodstone fragment.
Goram was subdued by the technology of Bloodstone Island, and then
Ulysses Bloodstone fought Killer Shrike. Bloodstone met Iron Man,
then battled Goram and his master Centurius. Bloodstone then met
Ulluxy’l Kwan Tae Syn on the astral plane. Bloodstone petitioned the
United Nations to recognize the sovereignty of Bloodstone Island, and
then battled Sharzan the Elemental.

Bloodstone's vendetta against the Hellfire Helix ended when the truth
came out: the Hellfire Helix had needed a host, and had chosen
Bloodstone. As Bloodstone and Ulluxy’l Kwan Tae Syn had fought, the
Helix had assembled a group called "The Conspiracy," which had five
members, to reassemble the meteorite and gain control of Bloodstone.
Bloodstone faced off against the Conspirators, but they defeated him.
The life-sustaining gem fragment was surgically removed from his chest
by one Conspirator, the surgeon Dr. Juden Bardham. The Conspirators
thought they would become immortal, but instead, the evil Helix killed
all five of them to reassemble the gem. Bloodstone's body managed to
kill the gem-monster Ulluxy’l Kwan Tae Syn and prevent the Helix from
coming to Earth by vanquishing the Hellfire Helix on the astral plane.
His body then withered and died.

Bloodstone's skeleton was later revealed to be in the possession of the
American Museum of Natural History. The Hellfire Helix was later
revealed to have resurrected itself, and it possessed the corpse of the
first Baron Zemo, which disappeared down an inactive volcano in
Japan.

The Bloodstone restored the Punisher, who had been resurrected as a
Frankenstein's monster-like entity derisively nicknamed
"Franken-Castle," to normal after a damaging fight with Daken and
Wolverine. The Punisher discarded the Bloodstone when Ulysses
Bloodstone's daughter Elsa and the Legion of Monsters made him realize
that it was beginning to affect his judgement, causing him to consider
killing those who might commit crimes rather than allowing him to retain
his resolve to only kill the guilty.


Powers and abilities

The mystic Bloodstone fragment embedded in Ulysses Bloodstone's chest
emanated magical energy which increased his physical strength, speed,
stamina, agility, reflexes, and senses to superhuman levels. The
Bloodstone also provided vast regenerative capabilities that enabled his
rapid regeneration of injured or missing body tissue with much greater
speed and efficiency than an ordinary human. The more extensive the
injury, the longer it would take for him to heal it fully. Bloodstone's
healing ability was sufficiently developed for him to be able to
regenerate severed limbs, which he did at least once. On this occasion,
Bloodstone entered a state of self-induced hibernation which could last
for years. Aside from his greatly enhanced healing, the Bloodgem
rendered Bloodstone virtually immortal in the sense that he was immune
to the effects of aging and to all known diseases. Bloodstone's life was
dependent upon the presence of the fragment and, as a result, he had
ceased to require food, water, or air to survive. However, if he was
forcefully separated from the gem, then that forceful separation would
kill him; indeed, when Dr. Bardham removed the fragment from his chest,
it did kill him.

Aside from his physical attributes, the Bloodstone provided certain
psionic abilities to Ulysses Bloodstone. He possessed a kind of
invisible third eye on his forehead that allowed him to see human auras,
which enabled him to see people even in total darkness, and the ability
to travel mentally onto any one of the various astral planes of
existence. Bloodstone also possessed some degree of psychokinesis, the
limits of which were never discovered, but which also enabled him to
detonate certain explosives by means of such psychokinesis.

Bloodstone's greatly extended lifespan afforded him many lifetimes's
worth of time to study virtually anything he wished to learn. Thus, he
had acquired a high degree in expertise in virtually all forms of armed
and unarmed combat. In the modern era, he used a variety of different
weapons, including high-caliber firearms, swords, and knives. He carried
a specially-designed sawed-off shotgun whose shells he could detonate
mentally, as well as a stainless steel Bowie knife and .45 caliber
semi-automatic handguns. He wore a flak jacket with storage pouches for
a variety of weapons and ammunition.


Children

Elsa Bloodstone

ELSA BLOODSTONE is the daughter of Ulysses Bloodstone. She was the star
of her own mini-series simply titled Bloodstone._

Cullen Bloodstone

CULLEN BLOODSTONE is the son of Ulysses Bloodstone and a student at the
Braddock Academy. He was among the 16 teenagers who were captured by
Arcade and brought to Murderworld so that Arcade could have the
teenagers fight to the death.


Other versions

Earth X

In the alternate future of Earth X, in the afterlife Ulysses joins with
dozens of other deceased heroes in attempt to stop the genocidal plans
of Mephisto and Thanos.

Nextwave

Ulysses Bloodstone also appeared in Nextwave in many flashbacks
relating to his daughter's training and is shown acting out of character
- for example, Ulysses creates a robot tutor for Elsa that uses torture
to teach her. In another incident, Ulysess throws a baby Elsa into
battle against a monster. In 2006  Editor-in-Chief Joe Quesada
stated that "for the time being" Nextwave was to be considered set in a
universe separate from the main  continuity. More recently
Nextwave has been partially integrated with the  Universe when
someone dressed like the Nextwave version of Monica Rambeau was seen
being deported back to Earth-A, from where people had been arriving on
superhero vacation packages. Furthermore, several characters in
the Nextwave book, not including Elsa herself, appeared in other books,
referring to some events of the series as actually canon. Civil War:
Battle Damage Report suggests that Nextwave adventures actually
happened, but due to mental conditions and drug treatments given to the
main characters, they were in a constant delusional state, accounting
for the weird memories Elsa displays of her father.


Collected editions

Stories featuring him that have been collected into trade paperbacks
include:

-    Milestones Special: Bloodstone, X-51 & Captain  II
    (collects  Presents #1 and Bloodstone #1, ,
    2006)
-   Captain America: The Bloodstone Hunt (collects Captain America
    volume 1 #357-362, 1989), tpb July 1993, ISBN 0-87135-972-3


In other media

A Bloodstone TV series was considered for development in 2001.

