UNION JACK is the name of three fictional superheroes appearing in the
 Universe comic books published by  and  UK.
Created by Roy Thomas and Frank Robbins, the first Union Jack first
appeared in The Invaders #7 (July 1976), a second incarnation from the
same creators appeared in The Invaders #21, and a third incarnation
was created by Roger Stern and John Byrne for Captain America Vol. 1
#254 (February 1981).

Following The Invaders, Union Jack has been featured as a regular
character in ongoing series Knights of Pendragon, New Invaders and
Invaders Now, as well two self-titled mini-series.


Publication history

1970s publications

Roy Thomas and Frank Robbins featured the original Union Jack, James
Montgomery Falsworth, as a retired country squire in The Invaders #7-9
(July–October 1976); in the story flashbacks show him in action in WWI
as part of Freedom's Five and battling the original Baron Blood, later
revealed to be his own brother, while in the present day his brief
membership of the Invaders ends when he is invalided saving his
daughter, Jacqueline Falsworth, from his vampiric brother. Thomas and
Robbins concluded the plot-line in The Invaders #11 (December 1976);
in the story his newly empowered daughter takes his place on the team.

Thomas and Robbins continued to feature Lord Falsworth in a number of
volumes, including; #12 (January 1977), which sees him watching his
daughter head off on her first mission with the team; #14-15
(March–April 1977), which sees him absconding with her and new hero
Dyna-Mite and #18-19 (July–August 1977), which sees the three
parachuting into Nazi Germany on a mission to restore the latter's
memory; flashback reveals that Dyna-Mite is Roger Aubrey, the best
friend of Lord Falsworth's son, and that the two had been imprisoned by
the Nazis while on a peace mission to Berlin.

Thomas and Robbins also first featured Lord Falsworth's son and
successor Brian in his previous guise as the Destroyer in Invaders
#18-19 (July–August 1977); in the story he explains how he received a
variation of the super-soldier formula from a fellow inmate while in a
Nazi prison. Thomas and Robbins concluded the plot-line in The
Invaders #20-21 (September–October 1977); in the story Brian takes over
his father's role of Union Jack to rescue his sister and the rest of the
team while Lord Falsworth helps to steal a plane to get them home, and
in Invaders #22 (November 1977); in which they are both safely
returned to England. Thomas and Robbins also featured Brian in What
If?_ #4 (August 1977); in the story he and Spitfire save Winston
Churchill from a Nazi assassination attempt.

Thomas and Robbins continued to feature both Falsworths in the series,
with the younger becoming a semi-permanent member of the team with
issues #23 (December 1977) & #25 (February 1978); in which he joins them
on his first mission, while the older appeared in a supporting role in
issue #23 (December 1977), in which he helps Dyna-Mite's search for a
cure to his size reduction, and #26 (March 1978); in which he introduces
Brian to the restored Aubrey in his role as the new Destroyer.

1980s publications

Roger Stern and John Byrne gave Lord Falsworth a contemporary appearance
as an elderly wheelchair-bound country gentleman for Captain America
Vol. 1 #253-254 (January–February 1981); in the story, which features
the first appearances of his second successor Joey Chapman, he tries to
put on his old costume to join Captain America's final battle against
his vampiric brother, Baron Blood, and dies of natural causes in the
epilogue; the story also reveals that Brian Falsworth had died in a car
crash in 1953.

1990s publications

Dan Slott and James W. Fry III featured Brian Falsworth in a WWII-era
story for Midnight Sons Unlimited #9 (May 1995); in the story he teams
up with the Blazing Skull to defend a fundraiser he is hosting from a
Nazi attack.

2000s publications

Lord Falsworth appears as a supporting character in Fabian Nicieza and
Lewis LaRosa's Citizen V and the V-Battalion: The Everlasting #1
(March 2002); the story begins with a flashback showing him at Brian
Falsworth's funeral in 1953 and reveals he assisted the titular
fictional secret organization run by his son's lover, Roger Aubrey.

2010s publications

Kyle Higgins, Alec Siegel and Pepe Larraz featured the Brian Falsworth
incarnation in the WWII flashback story Crossfire for the 70th
Anniversary Issue Captain America #616 (May 2011); in the story
Captain America and Union Jack defend a French town under Nazi siege.


Fictional character biography

James Montgomery Falsworth

A peer of the realm as Lord Falsworth, James Montgomery Falsworth is
first active as the adventurer and British government operative Union
Jack during World War I. During his adventures as a member of Freedom's
Five, he encounters the mysterious Baron Blood, a vampire saboteur for
the Germans. After the war, Lord Falsworth retires to his ancestral home
in England to raise a family.

He is active again as Union Jack during World War II. He becomes a
member of the Invaders after the original Human Torch saves his daughter
— Jacqueline Falsworth — from Baron Blood. Jacqueline is revived by a
blood transfusion from the Human Torch which grants her the power of
super-speed. As a result, she becomes the costumed hero Spitfire (a
title she still holds in the 21st Century). After the attack, Lord
Falsworth offers up his mansion as the Invaders' base of operations.
After Baron Blood's attack on Jacqueline, James discovers the vampire is
actually his brother, John. During a battle, Blood crushes Union Jack's
legs under a boulder, effectively ending his career as a hero. Before
the battle ends, James is able to impale Blood on a silver-veined
stalagmite. Soon after, he quits the Invaders.

Although unable to use his legs, James later travels with Spitfire and
Dyna-Mite, parachuting into Nazi Germany. There they meet up with James'
son, Brian, whom they were searching for. Falsworth and Dyna-Mite were
captured by the Nazis, but are then rescued by Brian. Originally
thinking his son a traitor, James learns that Brian fights against the
Nazis as the costumed hero, the Destroyer. As a result, the two
reconcile their differences and James passes the mantle of Union Jack on
to Brian, at which point Brian abandons his Destroyer identity.
However, the father outlives the son when Brian is killed in an
automobile accident in 1953.

Years later, James Montgomery Falsworth contacts Captain America to
combat Baron Blood. Falsworth finally sees the end of Baron Blood with
the help of Captain America and the third incarnation of Union Jack
(Joey Chapman). After this episode, James Montgomery Falsworth passes
away from heart failure due to old age.

He is seen again when Baron Zemo travels back in time, in Baron Zemo:
Born Better #3.

Brian Falsworth

Brian Falsworth is the son of James Montgomery Falsworth, born like his
father in Falsworth Manor in a village north of London. Brian and his
friend and lover Roger, are both initially sympathetic toward Germany
and supportive of peace between it and the United Kingdom. Toward the
end of the 1930s, the pair go into Germany, but quickly discover the
evil nature of the Nazi regime. Brian is thrown in prison, and Roger is
given to German scientists.

Brian gains superpowers through the help of a German scientist who tries
to recreate the Super Soldier Formula that resulted in Captain America.
Brian escapes prison and becomes a costumed Nazi-fighter within Germany,
calling himself the Destroyer.

Meanwhile, Roger is used for experiments. He is brainwashed and his body
is reduced in size. Standing one foot tall but with the strength of a
full-sized man, he is given the name Dyna-Mite. With his memory gone,
the Nazis unleash Dyna-Mite against the Allies, in a plot which involves
the Crusaders.

Meanwhile, Brian, reunited with his family and reconciling with his
father, investigates the past of Dyna-Mite. Brian ultimately finds out
the truth behind Dyna-Mite, and Roger's size and memory are restored.
After his father's legs are crushed by Baron Blood, Brian learns of his
father's costumed identity as Union Jack. Alongside Captain America,
Brian battled Nazi soldiers, and rescued Lord Falsworth and Dyna-Mite
when they sought him out in Germany and were captured by the Nazis.
Brian adopted the Union Jack identity as an adventurer and British
government operative in place of his father, joining the Invaders and
battling Master Man. Roger, in turn, takes on the mantle of the
Destroyer.

Later, Brian is charged by magical lightning when fighting Thor. He
gains the ability to shoot electricity from his fingertips. Following
the war, Brian remains active as Union Jack, and is instrumental in
founding the V-Battalion alongside Roger Aubrey and other heroes of the
era. A car crash on a British road in 1953 abruptly ended Brian
Falsworth's career and his life.

In the 2008 limited series Avengers/Invaders he is part of the
WWII-era Invaders. His teammates are lost in time and battle the
Avengers. In varying timestreams, Union Jack perishes again and
again.

Joseph Chapman

Joseph Chapman's incarnation as the current Union Jack is unique in that
he is not a member of the Falsworth line or part of any British
aristocratic family. Rather, Joey Chapman, born in Manchester, England,
is the working class son of a shipbuilder.

Chapman becomes Union Jack when, while visiting Falsworth Manor with his
friend, Kenneth Crichton (nephew of Brian Falsworth and later Baron
Blood III), he dons the costume to stand in for Kenneth and save the
life of James Montgomery Falsworth, Lord Falsworth, who has been
targeted by Baron Blood.

For a time he fought crime on his own, serving as a hero for the common
man as opposed to the aristocratic Captain Britain. Their rivalry was
most apparent when they both were chosen as Knights of Pendragon by the
Green Knight of Avalon. Captain Britain did not remain a Pendragon for
long, but Union Jack stuck with the new team until it broke up when half
the team traveled to a parallel world to offer humanitarian aid. During
his time with the KoP, Union Jack's physique increased to near
Hulk-like proportions and he went through a series of alternate
costumes. After the Knights of Pendragon break up and his enhanced
musculature returns to normal, he reverts to the classic uniform and
returns to fighting crime solo. He also faces a vampire cult led by a
vampire who had been created by the original Baron Blood.

Chapman later wears an updated, militaristic costume, and joins the
modern incarnation of the Invaders, led by Jim Hammond, the original
Human Torch. For a time, Chapman became romantically involved with his
New Invaders team mate, Spitfire (Kenneth's mother). They have since
resolved to be friends, and he remains active in the UK's espionage
community.


Powers and abilities

James Montgomery Falsworth was an athletic man who possessed no
superhuman powers. However, he was trained in the field of espionage, a
veteran of two world wars, and highly trained in armed and unarmed
combat. He wore a bullet-proof costume and carried a 6" dagger and a
.455 caliber Webley revolver, both of which he used with great skill.
Falsworth began using a wheelchair in 1942 and was debilitated by
extreme old age at the time of his death.

During his initial career as the second Union Jack, Brian Falsworth
possessed no superhuman powers. He was a superbly athletic man, but,
having been exposed to a variant of the Super Soldier Formula, was
enhanced to the peak of human potential, and was highly trained in armed
and unarmed combat. Like his father, he wore bulletproof fabric and
primarily used a Webley .455 revolver and a 6-inch dagger. After an
encounter with Thor later in his career, he gained the ability to
discharge bolts of mystic lightning from his fingertips after his body
was energized by a lightning strike.

Like those who held the title of Union Jack before him, Joey Chapman is
an athlete in peak physical condition. In addition, his strength, speed,
and stamina are enhanced by the Power of the Pendragon. Chapman usually
carries a handgun of some variety (changing it as appropriate to the
mission) and a silver-edged dagger used for supernatural foes.


Other versions

Earth-4904

Named Byron Falsworth, the Brian Falsworth version of Union Jack that
appeared on Earth-4904 is called MAJOR COMMONWEALTH, a Captain
Britain Corps member who featured in Mighty World Of  vol. 2,
#13.


In other media

Film

-   James Montgomery Falsworth appears in Captain America: The First
    Avenger (2011), played by JJ Feild. He is one of several POW's been
    held at a HYDRA factory who are liberated by Captain America, and
    subsequently joins his unit. This incarnation does not utilize the
    Union Jack identity.
-   In a deleted scene filmed for The Avengers, Falsworth's file is
    one of several that Captain America looks through after being
    revived in the present day, and he is listed as being deceased.

Video games

-   James Montgomery Falsworth appears in the Captain America: Super
    Soldier video game, voiced by JJ Feild.
-   The James Falsworth persona of Union Jack appears as a playable
    character in : Avengers Alliance.
-   The Joseph Chapman persona of Union Jack appear in Lego 
    Super Heroes, voiced by Robin Atkin Downes.
-   The James Falsworth persona of Union Jack is a playable character in
    Lego 's Avengers.


Collected editions

Union Jack's major appearances have been collected in a number of trade
paperbacks:

-   Invaders Classic (written by Roy Thomas, with pencils by Frank
    Robbins and inks by Vince Colletta/Frank Springer):
    -   Volume 1 (includes Invaders #7-9, July - October 1976, tpb,
        248 pages, July 2007, ISBN 0-7851-2706-2)
    -   Volume 2 (includes Invaders #10-21, November 1976 - October
        1977, tpb, 240 pages, July 2008, ISBN 0-7851-3120-5)
    -   Volume 3 (collects Invaders #22-23 and #25-34, 224 pages,
        February 2009, ISBN 0-7851-3720-3)
-   Captain America: War and Remembrance (by John Byrne and Roger
    Stern, with pencils by John Byrne and inks by Josef Rubinstein, tpb
    includes Captain America #253-254, 1981, 208 pages, July 2007,
    ISBN 0-7851-2693-7)
-   Union Jack (written by John Cassaday and Ben Raab, with art by
    John Cassaday, 3-issue mini-series, December 1998 - February 1999,
    tpb, 96 pages, April 2002, ISBN 0-7851-0934-X)
-   New Invaders: To End All Wars (written by Allan Jacobsen, with art
    by Jorge Lucas and C. P. Smith, tpb collects New Invaders #1-9,
    October 2004 - June 2005, 216 pages, July 2005, ISBN 0-7851-1449-1)
-   Captain America: Red Menace Volume 2 (written by Ed Brubaker with
    art by Steve Epting, tpb collects Captain America #18-21, July -
    October 2006, 104 pages, December 2006, ISBN 0-7851-2225-7)
-   Union Jack: London Falling (written by Christos Gage, with pencils
    by Mike Perkins and inks by Drew Hennessy, 4-issue mini-series,
    November 2006 - February 2007, tpb, 96 pages, July 2007,
    ISBN 0-7851-2181-1)
-   Avengers/Invaders (collects Avengers/Invaders #1-4, harover,
    96 pages, September 2009, ISBN 0-7851-2942-1)

