VAMPIRE BY NIGHT (NINA PRICE) is a fictional character that appears in
comic books published by . She is the niece to Jack Russell
and has the ability to become either a Werewolf or vampire between dusk
and dawn.


Publication history

She first appeared in Amazing Fantasy Vol. 2, #10 and was created by
Jeff Parker and Federica Manfredi.


Fictional character biography

Through her mother's bloodline, Nina became part of a long family curse.
This curse had originated with Nina's 18th century ancestor Grigori, who
had been tainted by the Darkhold, a grimoire of black magic, and was
subsequently bitten by a Werewolf who served Dracula. Because of this,
all the descendants of Grigori were cursed to become Werewolves upon
their 18th birthday. Nina's mother Lissa Russell was a victim of the
curse until an altercation with a sorcerer named Glitternight altered
her standing and she was freed from being a Werewolf. Lissa then married
a wealthy business tycoon named Mr. Price and gave birth to Nina.
Although her mother was able to alter the curse's path against her, the
curse continued its course to Nina. At some point Nina was attacked and
bitten by a Vampire who attempted to change her into the undead. This
attack altered the curse for Nina somewhat and caused her to become both
Werewolf and Vampire in one. By day Nina Price seems to be a normal
Human, but once the sun goes down she becomes a Vampire. Due to the
Werewolf's bite, Nina became a white wolf during the full moon, and she
used her father's money and status to reserve a zoo or park, in which
she would cage herself until the full moon was over and she was no
longer an animal (so she would not hurt innocents). However, Nina had no
problem using her supernatural abilities to harm criminals, as she found
them acceptable targets for her Vampiric thirsts, feeding on rapists and
thieves once the sun went down.

Falling in a trap set by S.H.I.E.L.D. during an adventure with her uncle
Jack, Nina soon after became a reluctant member of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s
Paranormal Containment Unit, nicknamed the Howling Commandos. Working
at a secret military installation called Area 13, Nina was placed as
part of a supernatural team working for the government set to handle
situations that dealt with more of the macabre side of life. During
her time there she was partnered with another Werewolf named Warwolf
(real name Vince Marcus) and fellow Vampire Lilith, the daughter of
Dracula.

As part of the All-New, All-Different  event, Nina becomes a
member of S.T.A.K.E.'s Howling Commandos.


Powers and abilities

Nina is hybrid of a Vampire and a Werewolf, and possesses the abilities
of both, but only after sunset. Her Vampire powers make her
supernaturally strong and fast, and unable to cast a reflection (which
makes it impossible for people to take her picture at night). She can
hypnotize people with her stare, an ability she often uses to immobilize
her prey. Like a normal vampire, she must feed on human blood, but she
focuses her thirst on criminals. Due to her hybrid nature, sunlight is
not lethal to Nina (as it is to most Vampires) and she heals amazingly
quickly from even the most serious of injuries.

She is also gifted with the power of lycanthropy and when the moon is
full, she becomes a wolf. Unlike her uncle Jack, she doesn't become a
humanoid werewolf, but becomes an actual white wolf (strongly resembling
an Arctic wolf). In her bestial state, Nina has superhuman senses of
hearing and smell, and powerful jaws and deadly fangs and claws. She is
also overwhelmed by the wolf's feral instincts, and often shuts herself
away from others to prevent herself from killing innocent people.

