VANCE ASTROVIK, also known as JUSTICE and formerly known as 
BOY, is a fictional mutant superhero in the  universe. He
possesses the superhuman power of telekinesis. Astrovik has been
affiliated with the New Warriors and The Avengers. He first appeared in
Giant-Size Defenders #5 (July, 1975) and was created by Don Heck and
Gerry Conway

The Vance Astrovik character in an alternate timeline became a founding
member of the Guardians of the Galaxy, calling himself Vance Astro.
 has treated this as a separate character from the alternate
Earth-691, and the two have even met on occasion.


Publication history

More than a decade after his creation, Vance appeared first as a
mainstay in the New Warriors and later in the third volume of the
Avengers titles. He usually appeared with Firestar, who was his
girlfriend then later fiancee.

In 1994, he had his own four issue limited series, Justice: Four
Balance and appeared in the I (heart) : Masked Intentions
oneshot in 2006.

He was a major character in Avengers: The Initiative, early in the
series.

Justice appeared as a supporting character in Avengers Academy from
issue #1 (Aug 2010) through issue #20 (Dec 2011).


Fictional character biography

Vance Astrovik was born in Saugerties, New York. He was visited as a
teenager by an alternate, time traveling version of his future self,
Major Vance Astro of the Guardians of the Galaxy, an astronaut who had
volunteered for an experimental space flight and consequently been lost
in space in cryogenic suspension for a thousand years. The elder Vance
Astro convinced his younger self to not become an astronaut, and in the
process, sparked the premature emergence of the younger Vance's
telekinetic powers. Due to the vagaries of time travel in the 
Universe, this did not create a paradox, but instead made the Guardians'
future world into a parallel timeline, to which they later returned.
Although Major Vance Astro had not had a chance to fully develop his
psionic power in his time in NASA, the younger Astrovik now had the
opportunity to hone his power. Astrovik soon became the costumed
crime-fighter  BOY.

Early adventures

After his powers developed, Vance's father, Arnold, began to physically
abuse him for being "different". Running away from home, Vance wound up
supporting himself as a professional wrestler in the Unlimited Class
Wrestling Federation, a circuit for superhuman competitors. While
wrestling as "Manglin' John Mahoney", he befriended Ben Grimm, a.k.a.
the Thing, who at the time was himself estranged from his "family", the
Fantastic Four. Eventually, Vance was convinced to return home, with
assurances from his parents that the abuse would stop.

New Warriors

When  Boy was rejected for membership in the Avengers by Captain
America, he helped found a team of teenage superheroes, the New
Warriors, led by the new hero Night Thrasher. He had many intense
times during this early period, such as a fight against the White Queen,
her Hellions and the immortal villain Gideon. At the same time, Vance
developed friendships with the other Warriors, and a romantic
relationship with teammate Firestar, and his powers increased both in
strength and skill. However, his costumed activities renewed Arnold
Astrovik's prejudice towards Vance's powers; both Vance and his mother
suffered from Arnold's abusive behavior, and Vance's instinctively
protecting himself with his powers only made things worse, with tragic
consequences.

Murder Trial

One night, Arnold Astrovik not only attacked a disadvantaged Vance
(injured in a fight with Terrax and further injured by Gideon), but
struck his wife when she tried to intervene. In one burst of his
ever-growing superpowers and pent-up emotion, Vance lashed out at his
abusive father and unintentionally killed him. Vance turned himself in
and went to trial, charged with first degree murder and negligent
homicide, and defended by attorney Foggy Nelson. The Thing was a
character witness for Vance and helped establish the history of abuse
that he suffered, as did Vance's mother, Norma; other testimony
established the good he had done as a costumed hero and his increasing
competence with his powers. However, the prosecuting attorney pursued
the latter angle, using testimony from Firestar and cross-examination of
Norma Astrovik to establish that Vance could have used his powers to
stop his father without lethal force. Finally, in her closing argument,
the prosecutor drew a gun on Vance and fired a (unknown to Vance) blank
round. Instinctively, Vance not only disarmed her, but reacted so
precisely that he contained the actual smoke from the gun, driving home
the prosecution's case; Vance was acquitted of murder, but was convicted
of negligent homicide. As a result of the trial, Vance's secret identity
became public knowledge.

Vance was sentenced to serve his time at the superhuman restraint
facility known as the Vault. He was shown enjoying the occasional free
walkabout on the long road-trip to the Vault, joking and playing around
with the officers. When his friends Firestar, Namorita, and Nova showed
up to free him, Vance protested, declaring he wished to serve his time.
He also said he was going to be paroled in fourteen months, so they'd
see him again, soon. Firestar, even though she tried to tough it out,
was very torn up about it, but she realized what Vance wanted to do and
decided to go on. During his stay in the Vault, he was granted
"training periods" with the Guardsmen on duty, determined to hone his
abilities to prevent another incident like his father's death. When a
riot broke out over the perception of poor living conditions, Vance
helped calm the riot by convincing the warden to allow the plant-based
villain Terraformer, once part of the Force of Nature, access to a
plant. Despite the warden's fears Terraformer would use it in an escape
attempt, the villain simply enjoys it being with him. This serves to
calm the ire of the other prisoners and it is agreed that, on a case by
case basis, their living conditions would be examined to accommodate
superhuman prisoners' unique needs.

Justice

After his time in the Vault, he adopted the codename JUSTICE. He briefly
went undercover working with Shinobi Shaw to spy on the activities in
the so-called "Younghunt."

When the Sphinx, a previous Warriors foe, dispersed members of the team
throughout history, Vance encountered his father as an adolescent. He
discovered that Arnold, his father, was a homosexual who was bullied
into accepting a heterosexual lifestyle by his own abusive father.
Understanding that his father was as much a victim as he was, Vance
attempted to change history by threatening his grandfather, but stopped
when he realized that he was, in his own way, perpetuating the cycle of
violence handed down from father to son. Though history remained
unchanged, this new knowledge allowed Vance to make a measure of peace
with the memory of his father.

Justice spent some time in a leadership role with the New Warriors and
talked about marriage with Firestar. This hit a snag when she learned
her microwave powers might render her infertile.

The Avengers

A mystical incident had caused all those who were once Avengers to be
targeted by creatures and monsters. Vance and Angelica accompanied their
friend Rage, who had been an Avenger, to a meeting at Avengers Mansion.
They willingly helped out in various ways before Morgan LeFay attacked,
altering reality. Vance and Angelica were caught up in the literal
mystical maelstrom and were turned into super-powered enforcers under
the command of LeFay. However, several Avengers managed to break free of
the control, based on their deep belief in the team itself. Vance found
himself coming to his senses despite never being an Avenger, a fact that
surprised the remaining heroes; thus, he joined the resistance.

After the threat of LeFay was ended and the two proved themselves by
defeating Whirlwind on their own, they managed to become Avengers.
Although he was thrilled to be living his lifelong dream of being an
Avenger, Vance made some small rookie mistakes at first, stemming from a
case of hero worship. However, he proved himself when he came up with a
way to defeat the current plans of the current form (or forms) of the
villain Ultron, despite a broken leg. Vance and Angelica then spent some
time undercover investigating the Triune Understanding, a cult-like
movement with seemingly good intentions but a villainous leadership.

After the House of M ended, Justice and Firestar were unaffected by
the global depowerment of mutants and thus retained their powers.
Vance's wish for more in their relationship, opposed to Firestar's wish
for less (being ages 22 and 19 respectively) ended their engagement, and
their relationship.

Civil War

Justice and former teammate Rage learned that people were hunting down
former New Warriors members because of perceived blame for the deaths
caused by Nitro in Stamford, Connecticut while fighting an incarnation
of the team. They both sought out the legal services of Jennifer
Walters (She-Hulk) in protecting the allies of the New Warriors, as
their identities were already publicly exposed. They eventually
discovered that former New Warriors member Carlton LaFroyge,
(Hindsight), was responsible for the persecution and exposure of their
teammates, operating a website that was slowly outing the identities of
the twenty or so remaining Warriors.

Both Rage and Justice refused to go along with the proposed super-human
registration act. This is further evidenced when they join Captain
America's Secret Avengers during the Civil War as a result of the death
of Bill Foster.

The Initiative

After the Civil War, Justice was recruited by Iron Man to head the youth
outreach arm of The Initiative superhero training program, based at Camp
Hammond. He is clearly unaware of some of the shadier aspects of the
program, and is growing increasingly irritated by the Initiative "Drill
Sergeant" Gauntlet's constant demeaning and disparaging remarks about
the deceased New Warriors. During the investigation of former New
Warriors members due to an attack upon Gauntlet, it was revealed to
readers that Justice is currently secretly seeing Ultra Girl, a trainee
with the Initiative and former New Warriors associate.

Justice's personal investigation into the fate of Initiative recruit MVP
opened his eyes to the morally ambiguous activities of the Initiative,
instituted by Camp Hammond director Henry Peter Gyrich. As a result,
Justice apparently deserted from the Initiative to continue his
investigation, and recruited Ultra Girl, Rage and other former New
Warriors Debrii and Slapstick to his cause. After a clone of MVP
goes rogue and leaves the Initiative with major casualties, Justice and
these former New Warriors, along with the two surviving Scarlet Spiders,
officially inform Iron Man of their intention to quit the Initiative and
act as Counter Force, a form of independent oversight for the program;
as the group are all registered superhumans, Iron Man is unable to act
against Justice's team unless they commit an illegal act. However, Ultra
Girl decides to return to the Initiative, apparently ending her
relationship with Justice.

Secret Invasion

During the Skrull invasion, Justice and Counter Force encounter Night
Thrasher (Donyell Taylor) at the old New Warriors, looking for a DNA
sample to prove whether or not the Night Thrasher that died at Stamford
was a Skrull imposter. Counter Force initially believe that Donyell is a
Skrull, due to his reluctance to reveal his identity, and comes into
conflict with Donyell's New Warriors. When Donyell finally reveals
his identity, the two teams join together to storm the S.H.I.E.L.D.
helicarrier where the deceased New Warriors bodies were being held, and
recover them. The corpse of Night Thrasher is proven to be of human
composition, and the two teams bury the bodies outside the old base.

Dark Reign

When Ragnarok, a deranged clone of Thor, attacks Camp Hammond, Counter
Force (Now calling themselves "The New Warriors", and boasting Night
Thrasher as a member) arrive to help. During the fight, Ragnarok
kills one of the Scarlet Spiders, and nearly kills Vance, who is saved
by Ultra Girl. After the battle, Vance retrieves the corpse of the
original MVP, seeking to give him a proper burial. However, their
actions in exposing the duplicity to the public, allowed H.A.M.M.E.R.
director, Norman Osborn to shut down Camp Hammond and reorganize the
Initiative, placing villains on Initiative teams. The New Warriors
rescue Gauntlet and Tigra from the Hood's gang and formed the Avengers
Resistance.

Siege

Things hit the tipping point for the Resistance, when Osborn
orchestrates a siege on Asgard by creating an incident similar to
Stamford. Justice declares that while most of the Initiative is busy
with the Siege, the Resistance will take down Camp H.A.M.M.E.R. in order
to expose Osborn once and for all.

Heroic Age

Vance becomes one of the teaching staff of "Avengers Academy", alongside
former Avengers teammates Hank Pym, Tigra, Quicksilver and former New
Warriors teammate Speedball.


Powers and abilities

Justice is a mutant who possesses telekinesis. By using his powers to
lift himself, he can levitate and fly at high speed. He has shown the
ability to hold a large number of people. Initially, Justice's
telekinesis was limited in its scope and using them at the peak level of
his power would cause him headaches and nosebleeds. However,
his powers later increased dramatically and he was no longer hindered by
the physical symptoms he had once suffered from.


In other media

Television

-   On the Fantastic Four animated series, Justice makes a brief cameo
    at the beginning of the episode _"Doomsday"_ flying alongside
    Darkhawk as the Silver Surfer passes by both of them.

Video games

-   Justice appears as a non-playable character in : Ultimate
    Alliance 2, voiced by Sean Donnellan. He ends up under the control
    of the nanites and assists A-Bomb in fighting the heroes in Wakanda
    on the path to the Black Panther's palace. He mentions his past
    and his relationship with Firestar.

