VERTIGO is a native of the Savage Land who obtained superhuman powers at
a young age by genetic engineering. Her powers enable her to render a
person severely dizzy and even unconscious.


Fictional character biography

She was initially a member of the Savage Land Mutates, empowered by
Magneto, with whom she first battled the X-Men and Spider-Man.

Marauders

Later, although not a mutant, she joined the Marauders, a group of
mutants working as assassins for the enigmatic geneticist known as
Mister Sinister. Sinister wanted his assassins to destroy a large
community of mutants, known as the Morlocks, who lived under New York
City, as he had deemed them genetically useless. The Marauders did
succeed in annihilating a large number of the underground mutants. While
the Marauders were accomplishing this, they also clashed with the
X-Men, X-Factor, Thor, and Power Pack. With the Marauders,
she also attempted to kill Madelyne Pryor.

Sinister later sent Vertigo along with the other Marauders to fight the
X-Men in New York City just before the extra-dimensional incursion known
as the "Inferno". She was apparently killed in battle with the
X-Men. Her alliance with Sinister was short-lived at that time, as
she soon rejoined her Savage Land Mutate allies.

Said allies join with the more peaceful of the Land's inhabitants to
resist a territorial grab by humanoid saurians. Her powers are central
in defeating the enemy army. Various X-Men broker a peace agreement
leaving the Mutates to their own devices again.

Vertigo encountered the Avengers in the Savage Land. Vertigo used her
powers to render them all unconscious and they were all taken captive
briefly.

Marauders/Cloned

Vertigo is a member of Mister Sinister's Marauders as well as living in
the Savage Land. As a Marauder, she has been killed and cloned various
times. It is unclear whether the Vertigo that appears in the Savage Land
is another clone or indeed the original Vertigo, though it appears that
the original Vertigo never left the Savage Land and does not have any
ties with the Marauders.

Messiah Complex and Death

Vertigo later reappears as a member of the reformed Marauders.

During Messiah Complex, she aids the Marauders in search of the new
mutant baby. During the Marauder's and the Acolyte's first battle
with the X-Men in Alaska, she and Scrambler are taken out by Storm.
After coming into a confrontation with Bishop and finally getting her
hands on the baby, she joins the others in the final fight between the
X-Men and X-Factor and the Marauders and the Acolytes, only to be killed
and eaten by Predator X, who was teleported in by the mutant Pixie.

A Vertigo clone appears in X-Force #9.


Powers and abilities

Vertigo is an artificially enhanced mutate who possesses the ability to
project waves of psionic energy into her environment which affect the
nervous systems of other living beings, distorting their physical
perceptions and sense of balance. This power induces effects ranging
from mild disorientation and vertigo to unconsciousness. Vertigo can
focus her power on one or more individuals, or project it outward from
herself in all directions, affecting everyone within her range of
influence.

Vertigo is not immune to her own powers, as she was thrown off balance
when Thor reflected her psychic waves back at her with Mjolnir.


Other versions

Age of X

In the Age of X reality Vertigo appeared as an X-Man.


In other media

Television

-   Vertigo also appeared in X-Men voiced by Megan Smith. She was one
    of the followers of Mister Sinister in the Savage Land. In the
    series, her powers were amplified after Mister Sinister genetically
    modified her with Magneto's DNA. Later in the X-Men animated
    series she joins the Nasty Boys who were working for Mister Sinister
    too.
-   Vertigo first appears in the Wolverine and the X-Men episode
    "eXcessive Force", voiced by Vanessa Marshall. She appears as a
    member of Mister Sinister's Marauders. Vertigo and Blockbuster were
    pursuing Berzerker in the sewers only to run into Cyclops. She
    escaped to warn Arclight as Cyclops catches up to them. As Cyclops
    attacks Arclight, Vertigo escapes. Vertigo later appears in the
    episode "Shades of Grey" where she along with the other Marauders
    fight the X-Men. She is defeated by Emma Frost.

Video games

-   Vertigo appears in Deadpool. She is one of Mister
    Sinister's Marauders. She attacks Deadpool in the sewers, but he
    shoots and kills her at the end of the level. Another clone of her
    appears near the end and attacks Deadpool with the other Marauders.

