VINDICATOR (HEATHER MACNEIL HUDSON) also known as GUARDIAN, is a
fictional character, a Canadian superheroine in the  Universe, and
a former leader of Alpha Flight (the codename VINDICATOR is also briefly
used by Heather's husband, James MacDonald Hudson, although he
eventually settles on the name Guardian).


Publication history

Heather Hudson first appeared in Uncanny X-Men #139 (Nov 1980) and was
created by Chris Claremont and John Byrne.


Fictional character biography

Heather was born in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. She was originally a
secretary at Amcam corporation, where she fell in love with James
MacDonald Hudson. After he had stolen his power suit to prevent it
from being used as a military weapon, Heather discovered his secret and
decided to share it with him. Soon after they were married.

Heather supported her husband in the forming of Department H and his
becoming a superhero. She also assisted Wolverine in a time of trouble
before his career with the X-Men, and was later reunited with him.

After Department H is dissolved, Heather brought the members of the
disbanded Alpha Flight together to battle Tundra of the Great Beasts.
With this initiative creating a spectacular success, the team decided to
continue operating Alpha Flight as an independent group.  Before
Alpha Flight had been back together for long, Heather witnessed the
apparent death of James Hudson. She was then injured attempting to
rescue a child from an alien Plodex.

Heather is asked by the members of Alpha Flight to take over leadership
of the team when her husband James, the leader of Alpha Flight, is
apparently killed. She accepts, though initially she leads purely as a
non-combatant. She led Alpha Flight on a mission with the X-Men, and
was temporarily transformed by the mystic Fire Mountain. This transforms
her into a state Loki refers to as a 'demi-god'. She has increased
leadership abilities along with vague powers that put her above all
other humans. She rejects these powers when all involved learn it would
come at the cost of humanity's creativity and the lives of anyone
magical, such as her two friends Shaman and Snowbird. She was briefly
"reunited" with what she thought was James Hudson, but who really turned
out to be an impostor - the robot Delphine Courtney. Her body was
temporarily distorted by Scramble, and then she was captured by
Deadly Ernest.

Eventually, these dangerous encounters led to Heather adopting a copy of
her husband's battle-suit. Through extensive training by Wolverine,
Heather is able to hold her own in a battle. Heather teamed with
Wolverine against Lady Deathstrike, and took the name VINDICATOR.
She became stranded in the Savage Land, and formed the mutated natives
into a team called Alpha Prime. Some time later, Heather was forced
to defend Alpha Flight in a Parliamentary hearing.

Eventually her husband returns and her suit is altered to manipulate
geothermal forces and she takes the name GUARDIAN. Soon after that,
she battled the Fantastic Four.

Heather and James have a baby (an as-yet-unnamed girl) and travel with
their child and several other members of Alpha Flight to return a clutch
of Plodex eggs to their homeworld. In addition, an accident brings
temporal copies of most of the original Alpha Flight - from a time
before her husband's "death" - to the present. This group includes a
copy of Heather. While she is not a member, this "new" group is active
as Alpha Flight while the originals are helping to rebuild the Plodex
homeworld.

Alpha Flight (the team consisting of Sasquatch, Guardian, Vindicator,
Shaman, Major Mapleleaf II, and both Pucks) are brutally attacked by a
new villain "the Collective". They are killed and their bodies are
left in the Yukon Territory as the Collective continues on to the United
States.

During the Chaos War storyline, Vindicator (alongside Guardian,
Shaman, and Marrina Smallwood) are among the heroes that return from the
dead after what happened to the death realms. Reuniting with Aurora,
Northstar, Sasquatch, and Snowbird, Alpha Flight gets back together to
fight the Great Beasts.

During the Fear Itself storyline, Vindicator helped Alpha Flight in
fighting Attuma in the form of Nerkodd: Breaker of Oceans. When Alpha
Flight returns to their headquarters, they are betrayed by Gary Cody and
his newly elected Unity Party. Vindicator sides with Cody. It is
shown that six weeks earlier, Guardian and Vindicator were unable to
regain custody of their child. While bringing Guardian to the Box Units
for imprisonment, Vindicator is ambushed by Puck who knocks Vindicator
out. After reclaiming her daughter Claire from her cousin,
Vindicator assembles Alpha Strike (consisting of Persuasion, Ranark, a
Wendigo, and a brainwashed Citadel) in order to spread the Unity program
and take down Alpha Flight. It is later revealed that Vindicator and
Department H had actually fallen under the mental control of Master of
the World. While at a beach in Ontario with Claire, Vindicator is
visited by Wolverine who states that the people in the United States are
starting to be concerned about the Unity Party's actions, and when he
saw Vindicator call the rest of Alpha Flight traitors Wolverine decided
to investigate. Vindicator then accompanies Alpha Strike into attacking
Alpha Flight, Taskmaster, and Wolverine. Vindicator fights Guardian, who
tries to get through to Vindicator by stating that Master of the World
is controlling her. At the end of the Alpha Flight series,
Vindicator (still under the influence of the Master) helped Alpha Flight
against Alpha Strike and then Master of the World attempts to kill their
child Claire. He was killed by Alpha Flight but Vindicator escapes with
Claire. After the Unity Party is abolished, Vindicator with her daughter
Claire leaves Canada.


Powers and abilities

Formerly, Vindicator wore the Guardian suit that her husband currently
wears. Currently Heather's suit, which she first employed in Alpha
Flight vol .2, taps into a different source for its power. Instead of
manipulating electromagnetic energies, this suit allows its wearer to
control geothermal energy, allowing Heather to melt rock and manipulate
the resulting lava, create jets of lava, create both hot and cold jets
of water, including jets of steam and cooling sprays of water. The suit
can absorb heat into its power cells, provides its wearer with a
personal force field, and enables feats of super-strength and
super-speed.

Heather is a master combat strategist, and received combat training in
hand-to-hand combat from Puck and Wolverine.


Other versions

Exiles

A black Canadian version of Heather Hudson, who served as her Alpha
Flight's version of Sasquatch, was a member of the Exiles. Recruited
against her will to replace a brain-damaged Thunderbird by the time
broker, Heather served as a member of the Exiles. Little was revealed
about her background or how she gained her powers.

Ultimate 

Heather Hudson also appears as the non-powered wife of James Hudson, who
she was introduced to by Wolverine, and is adoptive mother of
Wolverine's son James Hudson Jr.


In other media

Television

-   Heather Hudson appears in the X-Men episode "Repo Man" voiced by
    Rebecca Jenkins.

Films

-   In the movie X-Men Origins: Wolverine, Wolverine seeks refuge with
    an elderly couple, named Travis and Heather Hudson, after he escapes
    from Weapon X. Both are subsequently killed by Weapon X agents.
    Heather is portrayed by Julia Blake.

Video games

-   Heather appears in her Vindicator persona in X-Men Legends II,
    voiced by Marsha Clark.

