The VISION is the name of multiple fictional superheroes appearing in
American comic books published by . The first Vision was an
alien created by Joe Simon and Jack Kirby that first appeared in 
Mystery Comics # 13 (November 1940). The second Vision is an android
and a member of the Avengers that first appeared in The Avengers #57
(October 1968) by Roy Thomas, Stan Lee and John Buscema. The third
Vision was the time traveler previously known as Iron Lad, who was fused
with the operating system of the second Vision. The second Vision was
portrayed by Paul Bettany in the 2015 film Avengers: Age of Ultron; he
reprised the role in the 2016 film Captain America: Civil War.


Publication history

The first Vision was created by the writer-artist team of Joe Simon and
Jack Kirby in  Mystery Comics #13 (Nov. 1940), published by
 predecessor Timely Comics during the 1930s and 1940s, a period
which fans and historians call the Golden Age of Comic Books.

Decades later, editor Stan Lee and writer Roy Thomas decided to add a
new team member to the superhero-team series The Avengers. Thomas
wanted to bring back the Golden Age Vision, but Lee was set on
introducing an android member. Thomas ultimately compromised by using a
new, android Vision. The second Vision first appeared in The
Avengers #57 (Oct. 1968). Thomas wanted the character to be white as
befitting his ghostly name, but printing limitations of the time would
have rendered him colorless, with un-inked paper where his skin should
be. He settled on red as he did not want Vision to be green like the
Hulk or blue like the Atlanteans. The character has been compared
with Spock from Star Trek, but Thomas said that he was barely aware of
the TV series at the time. He acknowledged being influenced by the
Adam Link character by Otto Binder, one of the first robots treated as a
sympathetic character rather than as a mechanical tool.

In The Avengers #75 (April 1970), the Scarlet Witch is reintroduced to
the team and soon becomes a love interest for the Vision. Thomas
recounted, "I felt that a romance of some sort would help the character
development in The Avengers, and the Vision was a prime candidate
because he appeared only in that mag... as did Wanda, for that matter.
So they became a pair, for just such practical considerations. It would
also, I felt, add to the development I was doing on the Vision's
attempting to become ‘human.’" Thomas also came up with the idea of
the Vision having been created from the body of the Human Torch, but
only planted a vague clue to this (in The Avengers #93) before leaving
the series. It was finally followed up in The Avengers #134–135.
Writer Steve Englehart explained, "That plot was well known in-house for
years, and since Roy [Thomas] and Neal [Adams] hadn't had a chance to do
it, I did it on my watch with Roy’s blessing."

The Vision and Scarlet Witch were married in Giant-Size Avengers #4
(June 1975). The couple starred in the limited series Vision and the
Scarlet Witch #1–4 (Nov. 1982 – Feb. 1983), by writer Bill Mantlo and
penciller Rick Leonardi. This was followed by a second volume numbered
#1–12 (Oct. 1985 – Sept. 1986), written by Steve Englehart and penciled
by Richard Howell, in which the Scarlet Witch gives birth to twin boys
conceived with the Vision through magical means.

The "Vision Quest" story in West Coast Avengers #42–45 (March – June
1989) by writer/penciller John Byrne took the character away from his
earlier depictions as a "synthetic human" and emphasized his android
nature. The story had the Vision's memory and human brain patterns wiped
out, severed his relationship with his wife, revealed their children to
be essentially imaginary constructs, and included a two-page spread
showing a dismantled Vision. Journalist Karen Walker later commented,
"This image alone has probably done more to shape how future writers
(and readers) perceive the character than anything before or since. Once
seen broken down into component parts, it’s hard to truly move past that
image and think of the Vision as a synthetic man, not a machine."

The Vision appeared in a solo limited series, Vision, #1–4 (Nov. 1994
– Feb. 1995), by writer Bob Harras and penciller Manny Clark. Nearly a
decade after that came a second four-issue volume (Oct. 2002 – Jan.
2003), written by Geoff Johns and penciled by Ivan Reis.

The series Young Avengers, which ran 12 issues from April 2005 to
August 2006, introduced a new Vision, who is a combination of the
synthezoid Vision's program files and the armor and mental engrams of
the hero Iron Lad.

Vision appeared as a regular character in the 2010–2013 Avengers
series, from issue #19 (January 2012) through its final issue #34
(January 2013).


Fictional character biography

Golden Age Vision/"Aarkus"

During the 1940s,  predecessor Timely Comics published stories
featuring an unrelated superhero called the Vision, who was an alien
from an alternate dimension.

Silver Age Vision/"Victor Shade"

[Debut of the Silver Age Vision: The Avengers #57 (Oct. 1968). Cover
pencils by John Buscema.]

The robot Ultron is the creator of the Vision, a type of android he
calls a "synthezoid", for use against Ultron's own creator, Dr. Hank Pym
(Ant-Man/Giant Man/Goliath/Yellowjacket) and Pym's wife, Janet van Dyne
(the Wasp) of the superhero team the Avengers. Ultron sends his new
servant to lead the Avengers into a trap. The Wasp is the first to
encounter the synthezoid, and describes it as a "vision" while trying to
escape. Adopting the name, the Vision is convinced by the Avengers to
turn against Ultron. After learning how Ultron created him, using the
brain patterns of then-deceased Simon Williams (Wonder Man), the Vision
becomes a member of the team. The team initially believes the
Vision's body was created from that of the android original Human
Torch. The Avengers later are told that the time lord Immortus used
the power of the Forever Crystal to split the original Human Torch into
two entities – one body remained the original Torch while Ultron rebuilt
the other as the Vision. This was part of his plan to nurture a
relationship for the Scarlet Witch that would prevent her from having
any children, as her power level meant that any offspring she might have
could threaten the cosmic beings of the  Universe.

Not long after joining the team, the Vision is temporarily controlled by
Ultron, and rebuilds Ultron of adamantium, battling the Avengers before
regaining control of himself. Shortly after that, the Vision first
meets Wanda Maximoff, the mutant Scarlet Witch, with whom he later
becomes romantically involved. The two eventually marry and, via the
Scarlet Witch's hex powers, they have twin boys named Thomas and
William.

When the Vision attempts to penetrate an energy field erected by the
villain Annihilus, he "shuts down", and even after regaining
consciousness weeks later, remains paralyzed and assumes a
holographic form. He eventually regains control of his body and becomes
team leader. Having become unbalanced by these events, he attempts
to take control of the world's computers. With the aid of the
Avengers, the Vision is restored to his normal self, but now closely
monitored by a coalition of governments.

In a storyline called "Vision Quest", rogue agents of the United States
government, manipulated by the time traveler Immortus, abduct the Vision
and dismantle him. The Avengers recover the parts, and Dr. Pym rebuilds
the Vision, but with a chalk-white complexion. However, the revived
Simon Williams does not allow his brain patterns to be used again to
provide a matrix for Vision's emotions, explaining that the original
process, done without his consent, had "ripped out his soul". This,
along with damage to the Vision's synthetic skin when he was dismantled,
results in the synthezoid's resurrection as a colorless and emotionless
artificial human.

The original Human Torch also returns from his own apparent demise,
casting doubt on the Vision's identity. The Vision and the Scarlet
Witch's children are then revealed to be fragments of the soul of the
demon Mephisto, who had been broken apart by Franklin Richards shortly
before the birth of the twins. The twins are absorbed back into
Mephisto, which temporarily drives Wanda insane. Although she recovers,
Wanda and the Vision separate, each operating on a different Avengers
team.

The Vision gradually regains his emotions, by adopting new brain
patterns from deceased scientist Alex Lipton, and gains a new body that
resembles his original. In addition, Simon Williams' brain patterns
gradually reemerge and meld with Lipton's patterns, restoring the
Vision's full capacity for emotion.

Shortly after a reformation of the Avengers, the Vision sustains massive
damage in the final battle with the sorceress Morgan Le Fey, and
although incapacitated for several weeks, is eventually rebuilt and
recovers. While recovering, the Vision gives up his attempt to
reconcile with his wife, although he is revealed to retain a fondness
for her culture, such as visiting a restaurant that specifically caters
to Wanda's childhood community simply because he enjoys the ambience.
Remaining a member of the Avengers, he briefly becomes romantically
involved with teammates Carol Danvers (a.k.a. Warbird/Ms. ) and
Mantis before attempting again to reconcile with the Scarlet Witch.
Grief over the loss of the twins, however, drives Wanda insane again,
and she attempts to alter reality to recreate them. This causes a series
of catastrophic events that includes the Vision crashing an Avengers
Quinjet into Avengers Mansion. The Vision advises his teammates that he
is no longer in control of his body, and then expels several spheres
that form into five Ultrons. The Avengers destroy them, and an enraged
She-Hulk tears apart the remains of the Vision, having been driven to a
breaking point by the rapid slew of attacks against the Avengers. The
Avengers later believed that Ultron may have put a command in the Vision
that would have been activated by the Avengers' Code White alert during
one of the many periods in which Vision was held prisoner by Ultron,
though this was never confirmed. The Vision's operating system and
program files are later used in the creation of Iron Lad's armor. In
Mighty Avengers the original Vision is briefly separated from Iron Lad
by the power of the Cosmic Cube.

During the Chaos War storyline, the Vision is one of many deceased
heroes restored to life after the events in the death realms. Vision
joins with the other resurrected Avengers in their fight against Grim
Reaper and Nekra. During the fight, Vision blows himself up while in
battle with Grim Reaper, killing them both.

Following the Fear Itself storyline, Tony Stark is able to rebuild
Vision who once again joins the Avengers. After being informed about
what happened after his destruction, the Vision sees She-Hulk, telling
her he does not blame her for what happened. He then goes to Utopia to
confront Magneto, threatening Magneto to tell him where Wanda is.
Magneto uses his powers to subdue the Vision but spares him, saying he
believes Wanda still cares for the Vision and that Magneto does not want
to hurt her more. Captain America talks to the Vision afterward, telling
him he needs to move forward.

During a subsequent confrontation with the returned Wanda at the start
of the Avengers vs. X-Men storyline, Vision claims that her use of his
body to attack his friends is something that he cannot forgive and,
while he banishes her from the mansion, he also sheds tears after her
departure.

During the  NOW!_ relaunch, Vision leaves the Avengers in order
to find himself following a battle with Sunturion. After departing the
team, he is shown visiting Billy Kaplan, the teenage reincarnation of
one of his sons.

Following the Age of Ultron storyline, Vision joins Hank Pym's
Avengers A.I. alongside Monica Chang, Victor Mancha, and a reprogrammed
Doombot.

In the miniseries Ultron Forever, the Vision and Black Widow of the
present are drawn into the future by what appears to be Doctor Doom to
assist a team of Avengers from various points in the team's history -
including an early Hulk, James Rhodes as Iron Man, Thor when he was
afflicted by the curse of Hela, the female Thor of the present, and
Danielle Cage from a future where she wields Captain America's shield -
to assist Doom in defeating Ultron's conquest of the world. Although
Doom's true plan is revealed to be a desire to take Ultron's place, the
Vision reveals that this Doom is actually the Doombot who worked with
him in the Avengers A.I., convincing him to abandon his plan by noting
that simply following Doom's example ignores the more positive aspects
of Doom's history as the man who refused to let anyone else dictate his
terms.

In the All-New, All-Different  Universe following the
Battleworld crisis, the Vision is a member of a new team of Avengers.
However, after he provides fake evidence to force new heroes Nova and
Ms.  to leave the team, it is revealed that he is apparently
working for Kang the Conqueror as Kang mounts his latest assault on the
team, having been contaminated by nanobots from Kang during an
earlier encounter. However, the Vision is released from Kang's control
when Iron Man manages to purge his software, allowing him to turn on
Kang and help the Avengers defeat him, although he departs to consider
how easily he fell under Kang's control in the aftermath.

Modern Age Vision/"Jonas"

[The Vision, as he appears as a member of the Young Avengers. Art by Jim
Cheung.] The second incarnation of the Vision is a fusion of the old
Vision's operating systems and the armor of adventurer Iron Lad, a
teenage version of Kang the Conqueror who arrives in the present.
Through this merger, Iron Lad is able to access plans the Vision had
created in the event of the Avengers' defeat. He uses these plans to
assemble a new team of "Young Avengers". When Iron Lad is forced to
remove his armor to stop Kang the Conqueror from tracking him, the
Vision's operating system causes the armor to become a sentient being.

When Iron Lad leaves the time period, he leaves the armor behind with
the Vision's operating system activated. The exact details of the new
Vision's personality and mental make-up varies from writer to writer.
Some writers like Brian Michael Bendis (during the "Collective"
storyline) and Ed Brubaker (during "Captain America Reborn") write him
as if he was the original Vision in a new body, while other writers such
as Allan Heinberg and Dan Slott write him as an entirely new character.

The new Vision opts to stay with the Young Avengers and serve as a
mentor for them, though it is later revealed that (due to Heinberg's
portrayal of him as having Iron Lad's brainwave pattern be the basis for
his personality) he is with the group due to his growing feelings of
affection towards Cassie Lang, the super-heroine known as Stature
(daughter of Scott Lang). After the events of the superhero "Civil
War" over federal registration, the Vision travels the world posing as
different people in order to gain a better understanding of who he is.
He then finds Cassie and declares his love, and states he has adopted
the name "Jonas". During a later battle between the alien Skrulls
and the Avengers, the Vision is shot through the head. He survives
and joins with Nick Fury and S.H.I.E.L.D. alongside the other Young
Avengers.

He joins the new lineup of the Mighty Avengers, along with Stature.
They opt to keep their dual memberships in the Avengers and the Young
Avengers a secret, in order to hunt for the Scarlet Witch (really Loki
in disguise), who arranged for the roster to form. They ultimately tell
their teammates this when Loki reveals his impersonation of Wanda and
confront him. When the group ultimately disbands following the events of
the "Siege", both rejoin the Young Avengers full-time.

In Avengers: Children's Crusade, Cassie is killed by Doctor Doom, and
Iron Lad decides to take her body into the future to be revived. "Jonas"
protests, reasoning that such an action is more in line with Kang's
manipulation of time than what Cassie would want, and Iron Lad murders
him in a fit of jealous anger. Although his teammates contemplate
rebuilding him, they decide against it, both because they lack the
30th-century technology to do so and because, even with their access to
his back-ups, the lack of a back-up immediately prior to his death would
mean that they would have to tell him about Cassie's death all over
again. Kate, Cassie's best friend, prefers to believe that he and Cassie
are somehow together wherever they are now.


Powers and abilities

The Vision is described as being "...every inch a human being—except
that all of his bodily organs are constructed of synthetic
materials." The Solar Jewel on the Vision's forehead absorbs ambient
solar energy to provide the needed power for him to function, and he is
also capable of discharging this energy as optic beams; with this, he
can fire beams of infrared and microwave radiation. In extreme cases he
can discharge this same power through the Solar Jewel itself which
amplifies its destructive effects considerably, albeit at the cost of
losing most of his resources. The Vision also possesses the ability to
manipulate his density, which at its lowest allows flight and a ghostly,
phasing intangibility, and at its heaviest provides superhuman strength,
immovability, and a diamond-hard near invulnerability. The Vision is
capable of reaching a density ten times greater than that of depleted
uranium. On one occasion, the Vision uses this extreme durability to
render unconscious the villain Count Nefaria. The Vision often uses
his ability to alter his density against foes, by phasing an intangible
hand through them and then partially re-materializing it—a process he
describes as "physical disruption." This effect typically causes great
pain and results in incapacitation, as is the case when used against the
Earth-712 version of the hero Hyperion. Being an artificial
life-form/android of sorts, the Vision possesses multiple superhuman
senses—as well as superhuman stamina, reflexes, speed, agility, and
strength (even without being at high density). The Vision was trained in
unarmed combat by Captain America, and is an expert in the combat use of
his superhuman powers. The Vision is an expert on his own construction
and repair, and is a highly skilled tactician and strategist. The Vision
controls his density by interfacing with an unknown dimension to/from
which he can shunt or accrue mass, thus becoming either intangible or
extraordinarily massive. The Vision also possesses superhuman analytical
capabilities, and has the ability to process information and make
calculations with superhuman speed and accuracy.

After the Age of Ultron, Vision joins the Avengers A.I. team where his
"evolve" protocols were activated and now his body is formed from
millions of nanobots.

The Vision of the Young Avengers is able to use Iron Lad's neuro-kinetic
armor to recreate the former Vision's abilities, including strength,
density manipulation, and flight. The yellow solar cell on the Vision's
forehead can also emit a beam of infrared and microwave radiation. The
Vision is also capable of energy and holographic manipulation,
shapeshifting and time travel.


Other versions

Anti-Vision

During the Gatherers arc in the Avengers' books the villain Proctor who
was from an alternate timeline came to Earth-616 with a version of
Vision from yet another timeline. Proctor would wind up switching the
bodies of both Visions and have his version infiltrate the Avengers as
his mole. The original Vision would eventually be freed and he would
eventually take the Anti-Vision into custody when he came back to
collect his original body. It should be noted that Anti-Vision
switched to a Vision that would wind up crippled and after the switch
his body was white.

Mainframe

A version of the Vision called "Mainframe" features in the title
Guardians of the Galaxy. Mainframe is the chief operating system of an
entire planet, and the guardian of the shield of hero Captain
America. He soon joins the Guardians of the Galaxy sub-group, the
Galactic Guardians.

Earth X

A version of the modern Vision appeared in Earth X. Vision and the
Avengers were fighting the Absorbing Man who had absorbed the
intelligence of Ultron, giving him enhanced intelligence and better
control over his powers. Vision watched as his teammates and wife the
Scarlet Witch were slaughtered before his eyes. In response, the Vision
downloaded a computer virus into the Absorbing Man. When the Absorbing
Man tried to purge the virus by shrinking and changing into stone, the
Vision smashed him into pieces. In order to prevent the Absorbing Man
from being reborn, the Vision had the parts of Creel distributed among
various loners and reclusive super-heroes. When Tony Stark created a
group of Iron Avengers, robots based on Stark technology and modeled
after the deceased Avengers, the Vision was tapped as the group's
leader. He would lead the Iron Avengers and defend them from such
threats as the parasitic Hydra, Asgardian Frost Giants, and the Skull's
invading army.

Exiles

A bloodthirsty and arrogant version of Vision was a member of the
Exiles' counterpart Weapon X. This Vision was very single minded in
completing their murderous missions. He had a habit of pointing out to
his teammates that he would survive many attacks that could kill them.
He was able to single handedly hold off the entire Exiles himself before
being incapacitated and damaged by advanced Nimrod Sentinels on a
parallel Earth dominated by the mutant hunting robots. Despite the
damage inflicted by the Sentinels he continued to serve on several more
Weapon X missions. Ultimately Vision was blasted into pieces by King
Hyperion when he refused to join Hyperion in his plan to conquer one of
the many parallel earths. Although briefly left alive in pieces
Vision was finally killed when a huge asteroid, launched by that world's
Magneto, struck the Earth and destroyed both the planet and Vision.

MC2

An older version of the modern Vision features in the title
Spider-Girl in the MC2 universe. The character is an adviser to the
President of the United States and joins the young heroes in A-Next, a
future version of the Avengers.

JLA/Avengers

The Vision appears as a member of the Avengers, and it is he who
develops the plan to defeat the  villain Starro, by using the
Scarlet Witch's chaos magic. He takes parts in the Avengers' quest to
gather 12 artifacts of power before the Justice League and save their
universe. In Happy Harbor he and Thor are distracted by Red Tornado
while Firestorm gets the Bell, Wheel, and Jar of the Demons Three. The
game ends when The Grandmaster and Krona arrive. Krona turns on the
Grandmaster, but the Grandmaster uses the artifacts to merge the
universes in an attempt to trap Krona. In this world, the Vision and
Scarlet Witch are still married, and are shown to be friends with fellow
cyborg hero Red Tornado, from whom they get the idea of adopting. When
Captain America and Superman attack each other, the facade of a merged
world breaks, and Vision is the first hero shown in the devastated
world, in a snowy Metropolis. He teams up with Aquaman to investigate
the situation. After being defeated by a group of villains and rescued
by a group of heroes, Vision joins the two teams against Krona, even
though he is shown an image of the true  universe, in which he is
destroyed and rebuilt, and his two sons are taken away. During the
battle he is badly damaged. When he sees Superman being attacked by
Radioactive Man and Solarr, Vision uses his last stores of solar energy
to revive Superman, then dies. As the universes separate once again,
Thor says he can be repaired, and his remains are shown being taken away
by the Avengers.

Ultimate 

The character debuts in the limited series Ultimate Nightmare,
published under the Ultimate  imprint. This version appears to be
female. Alternate universe teams the Ultimates and Ultimate X-Men
discover a damaged, sentient robot, who claims that the closest English
translation of its name is "Vision". The robot warns of the coming of an
invader from space called Gah Lak Tus, Eater of Worlds. Ultimate
Vision is featured in a self-titled limited series, involving a
confrontation with the organization led by George Tarleton, A.I.M, along
with her reflections of her history with S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Dr. Sam Wilson.
Later, Hank Pym builds a robot based on Vision called "Vision 2", who
along with another called "Ultron", tries unsuccessfully to sell them to
Nick Fury as S.H.I.E.L.D. super-soldier replacements. They are later
used by Pym to attack the Liberators.

A third, unrelated Vision later debuts in Ultimate Comics: Ultimates
as part of the "West Coast Ultimates". The new Vision is revealed to be
ROBERT MITCHELL, a young African American prodigy who was arrested by
S.H.I.E.L.D. after trying to build an antimatter generator. Robert was
recruited and given superpowers by Nick Fury before being put in stasis
alongside Tigra, Quake, Black Knight, and Wonder Man.

The Last Avengers Story

The limited series The Last Avengers Story is set in an alternate
future, where the Vision has two sons by the Scarlet Witch, who died in
an accidental skirmish between the android and her brother Quicksilver.
This version of the Vision joins the surviving Avengers in a battle to
the death against villains Kang and Ultron.

 Zombies

In the limited series  Zombies vs. The Army Of Darkness, the
Vision is seen as one of the Avengers that are being aggressive around
Ash. Also in the limited series  Zombies 3, the Vision has been
partially dismantled and is being used as a communication tool by the
zombie Kingpin. The character is still hopelessly in love with the
zombified Scarlet Witch.

 Mangaverse

In the  Mangaverse, the Vision is a member of the Avengers roster.
His personality and powers are similar to his 616 persona, however, his
appearance is drastically different, appearing shorter and more robotic.
In the second volume, he, along with fellow Avengers Hawkeye and Captain
America, are killed by the Mangaverse version of Doctor Doom.

House of M

During the House of M storyline, the Vision was a theoretical design for
a new model of Sentinel robot from Howard Stark. Rushed into mass
production, no-one checks the coding, which includes an override circuit
which allowed him to use them as a private army. In the end they were
all swiftly destroyed.

X-Men Forever

In the X-Men Forever timeline, using his Victor Shade alias, was
an attendee at the funerals for Wolverine and Beast. When the Avengers
believed the X-Men to be involved in the deaths of Beast and Tony Stark,
they assaulted the X-Men at the X-Mansion, where Vision was quickly
taken out of the fight by Shadowcat's phasing ability. Recovering in
time for the X-Mansion to explode, he analyzed the remains, saying
nothing could have survived the blast and that radiation levels were
increasing.

Age of Ultron

In the alternative timeline in the 2013 "Age of Ultron" storyline in
which Ultron has conquered the Earth, Vision serves as Ultron's emissary
and barters with Luke Cage to turn over She-Hulk in exchange for Cage's
freedom.

 2099

In the  2099 era, Vision is a young woman with precognitive
abilities. She secretly uses her powers to find threats for Iron Man
2099, a member of Alchemax's Avengers.


In other media

Television

-   The Silver Age Vision is one of several Avengers to make cameo
    appearances in the mid-1990s Fantastic Four animated
    television series.
-   The Vision appears in The Avengers: United They Stand, voiced by
    Ron Rubin.
-   Vision appears in The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes, voiced
    by Peter Jessop
-   Vision appears in the television special Lego  Super Heroes:
    Avengers Reassembled, voiced by J.P. Karliak.
-   Vision will appear in Avengers: Ultron Revolution.

Film

[The Vision in a character poster for the 2015 film Avengers: Age of
Ultron, portrayed by Paul Bettany.]

-   The first Vision appears in the direct-to-DVD movie Next Avengers:
    Heroes of Tomorrow, voiced by Shawn Macdonald.
-   Paul Bettany, who also voiced J.A.R.V.I.S., plays Vision in the
     Cinematic Universe, appearing in the films Avengers: Age of
    Ultron (2015), and Captain America: Civil War (2016).
    In this iteration, he is created when Tony Stark attempts to upload
    J.A.R.V.I.S. into a synthetic body created by Ultron.

Video games

-   Vision is a playable character in the 1991 arcade game Captain
    America and the Avengers,  Super Hero Squad Online, 
    Contest of Champions, the  Heroes 2015 relaunch and Lego
    's Avengers.
-   Vision appears as an unlockable character in : Avengers
    Alliance.
-   Vision is a helper/assist character in Avengers in Galactic Storm.
-   Vision appears as a non-playable character in : Ultimate
    Alliance, voiced by Roger Rose.
-   Vision appears in  Heroes, voiced by Dave Wittenberg.
-   Vision is a playable character in Disney Infinity 3.0.
-   Vision is a playable character in : Future Fight.
-   Vision is a playable character in Lego 's Avengers, voiced
    by Paul Bettany.
-   Vision appears in  Avengers Academy, and is voiced again by
    JP Karliak.

Books

-   The Vision is the title of a short story by Jonathan Lethem from
    his collection Men and Cartoons, in which a character dresses like
    and claims to be the Vision as a child and then continues to dress
    like the Vision as an adult.

Collected editions

  Title                                         Material collected                                                      Year
  --------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------
  ''Avengers West Coast: Vision Quest           ''Avengers West Coast #42-50                                            ''May 2015
  ''Avengers: Vision and the Scarlet Witch      ''Giant-Size Avengers (1974) #4, Vision and Scarlet Witch (1982) #1-4   ''May 2015
  ''The Vision: Yesterday and Tomorrow          ''Avengers Icons: The Vision #1-4, Avengers #57                         ''May 2015
  The Vision Vol 1: Little Worse Than A Man   ''The Vision #1-6                                                       ''July 2016

