WALLFLOWER (LAURIE COLLINS) is a mutant appearing in comic books
published by . She is a member of the student body of the
Xavier Institute and a member of the New Mutants training squad therein.
After the events of M-Day transpired, she was one of a handful of
mutants to keep her powers. She first appeared in New Mutants, vol. 2
#2 and died in New X-Men, vol. 2 #25.


Fictional character biography

Laurie is a second-generation mutant. Her father, Sean Garrison, from
whom she received her power, used his power to manipulate people and get
money, fame, and women. Laurie's mother Gail was one of these women. She
broke up with him when she became immune to his power because she was
pregnant with his child. She raised Laurie alone. Laurie, realizing her
mother had been hurt, became a loner. While on vacation, her powers
manifested, causing her to become very popular. Her mother realized
this, and told Laurie about her powers and that using them on people is
wrong. As Laurie had no control over her powers and unwillingly caused
people to mirror her own emotions, this knowledge scared her, and she
became even more withdrawn than before.

After the Xavier Institute becomes public, Gail sends her there, and
moves to Salem Center to stay near her, so that she could have one
person whose reactions she could trust. Although she insists that Laurie
live at the school, so that she could make friends, Laurie remains a
loner and goes through several roommates in quick succession.

Eventually Sofia Mantega is paired with Laurie and, with her power to
blow pheromones away, Laurie no longer has to worry about accidentally
manipulating her roommate. Under pressure from Sofia, she also begins
developing acquaintances with David Alleyne and Kevin Ford. On a visit
to meet Sofia's former butler, they are attacked by the Reavers, and
Laurie is stabbed through the heart. She is saved by Josh Foley, who
uses his power to heal her.

Laurie develops an immediate crush on Josh, but before she can pursue
it, he falls head-over-heels for Rahne Sinclair. Laurie nonetheless
remains smitten with Josh, and the sight of him in mortal danger gives
her the emotional fortitude to take conscious control of her powers.

After the mansion is destroyed and rebuilt, she is placed on the
official New Mutants squad with Josh, Sofia, David, Surge and Kevin and
given the codename Wallflower. When Rahne breaks up with Josh, saying
that a relationship with him is inappropriate since she is on the
faculty, he begins dating Laurie in order to make Rahne jealous.

Eventually Rahne, feeling it would be healthier for Josh to be with
Laurie after she sees the two returning from a date, breaks off her
relationship with Josh for good. Kevin spies on their conversation and
uses the information to break Josh and Laurie up. Laurie is left
embittered by the experience, going so far as to use her pheromones to
manipulate Prodigy into kissing her at the dance in a successful attempt
to make Josh jealous. Sofia realizes what is happening, and the event
adds to the fast disintegration of the squad. [The death of Wallflower.
Art by Paco Medina.|thumb] Thereafter, Sofia pushes all the New Mutants
into a camp out for one night on the Xavier Institute grounds. While the
initial attempts by Sofia at forcing a resolution come to disaster, a
fist-fight between Josh and David leads Laurie to confess to Josh what
had happened at the dance. Later she - along with the other New Mutants
- overhear him pouring his heart out to Icarus, leading her to forgive
him enough to be friends.

After the events of House of M, where almost the entire mutant
population lost their powers, Laurie was one of the few who retained the
mutant gene. Panic spread throughout school in the aftermath of the
Decimation and, assuming he'd lost his powers too, Kevin reaches out to
Laurie, withering away her arm. Shortly after this trauma, Laurie is
shot and killed by a sniper working for the Reverend William
Stryker. It is later revealed that Stryker had her killed because a
vision from the future foretold she would be the one to single-handedly
defeat his army.

A long time later, a maniacal scientist uses Laurie's exhumed genetic
material (as well as the genetic material of the X-Men's numerous allies
and foes) to create Bio-Sentinel weapons housed within cloned
bodies.


Powers and abilities

Wallflower can control emotions through the use of emitted pheromones.
Initially she could not control when she released them, and could only
match the emotion she felt. Before her death, in her time at Xavier's,
she learned to control her powers and could keep her pheromones in
check, emit them on command, and could induce a variety of emotional and
physical responses, including fear, anger, lust, calmness, happiness and
sleep. It was debated by staff writers and X-Men within the comic that
if she gained full control of her powers she could apply them to crowd
control or putting entire armies to sleep.


Other versions

House of M

When the Scarlet Witch changed reality so that mutants were the dominant
species, Laurie was a student at the New Mutant Leadership Institute. As
Sofia belonged to the Hellions S.H.I.E.L.D training squad, the girls did
not have a close friendship, Sofia even stating that she hated Laurie
for being a "daddy's girl."

Laurie was closer to her father and estranged with her human mother in
this reality, as well as being close friends with Mercury, her roommate.
Both she and her father were deep cover agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. and when
Quentin Quire read her mind and discovered the truth she used her
pheromone powers to make him suicidal and had him kill himself with his
own powers.

The New Mutants and Hellions team up to find Surge's father, a wanted
terrorist. When the human terrorists reveal the despicable nature of
"Project Genesis" to the shocked New Mutants and Hellions, Laurie
reveals her true nature and causes the groups to fight one another to
the death, claiming that she does not care about the illegal human
experimentation, only about finding and bringing in the human
terrorists. Mercury, the only one immune to her powers, pleads with
Laurie, as a friend, to stop. Laurie refuses, revealing that she always
hated Cessily because she could not manipulate her with her pheromones.
Given no other choice, Mercury stabs her through the chest, killing her
and ending the fight.


In popular culture

-   Wallflower is referenced in the MC chris song "Nrrrd Grrrl": "She's
    more like a wallflower, Like the one that Stryker sniped, I'm like
    Elixir when I'm with her, 'Cause I think I like her type."

