WHITE TIGER (HECTOR AYALA) is a fictional character appearing in
American comic books published by . He was created by Bill
Mantlo and George Pérez. He is the first Puerto Rican superhero in the
history of comics, and 's first superhero of Hispanic descent.
Hector is the cousin of Angela del Toro and the brother of Ava Ayala.


Publication history

First appearing in Deadly Hands of Kung Fu #19 (December 1975), White
Tiger was created by Bill Mantlo and George Pérez. Following his debut
in Deadly Hands of Kung Fu #19, the character subsequently appears in
The Deadly Hands of Kung Fu #20-24 (January-May 1976), #26-27
(July-August 1976), #29-32 (October 1976-January 1977), The Spectacular
Spider-Man #9-10 (August-September 1977), Human Fly #8-9 (April-May
1978), The Spectacular Spider-Man #18-21 (May-August 1978), The
Defenders #62-64 (August-October 1978), The Spectacular Spider-Man
#22-23 (September-October 1978), #25-26 (December 1978-January 1979),
#29-31 (April-June 1979), #51-52 (February-March 1981), Spidey Super
Stories #57 (March 1982), Daredevil #38-40 (December 2002-February
2003), and Daredevil #69 (March 2005).

White Tiger received an entry in the original Official Handbook of the
 Universe #14. He appeared as part of the "Sons of the Tiger"
entry in the Official Handbook of the  Universe Deluxe Edition
#12. White Tiger received his own entry in the Official Handbook of the
 Universe Master Edition #11.


Fictional character biography

Hector Ayala was born in San Juan, Puerto Rico. As a college student at
New York's Empire State University, he discovered the tiger amulets
that were formerly worn and thrown away by the Sons of the Tiger.
Donning all three amulets, he transformed into the superhuman White
Tiger. He discovered that wearing all the pendants at once increased his
strength and gave him nearly superhuman skill in the martial arts.

In his alter-ego, Ayala went into action for the first time against a
street gang. He then battled the Prowler, who believed him to be a
murderer. The White Tiger battled the Jack of Hearts who also
believed him to be behind his father's murder. The White Tiger fought
off unnamed costumed assailants of the Corporation crime cartel, who
were threatening his sister and Jack of Hearts. Alongside Jack of
Hearts, Shang-Chi, and Iron Fist, the White Tiger fought Stryke and
other agents of the Corporation, and learned his brother Filippo was
attempting to find employment with Fu Manchu. Hector then encountered
the Sons of the Tiger.

Ayala was impersonated by Professor Vasquez, and battled Spider-Man in
the confusion. Ayala's secret identity was later publicly exposed by
the villainous Lightmaster. Alongside Spider-Man and Daredevil, he
then battled the Masked Marauder, Darter, and Carrion. Ayala was
later gunned down by Gideon Mace and nearly killed. He was operated upon
to remove the bullets, and recovered. Having gained an unhealthy
psychological and physical addiction to the tiger amulets, Hector
abandoned his identity as the White Tiger. He gave the amulets to a
private detective nicknamed Blackbyrd, who returned them to the Sons of
the Tiger. Hector then moved out west with his girlfriend Holly
Gillis.

After a while, the call to don the amulets and fight evil became too
strong and Hector once again became the White Tiger. Soon after,
Hector was wrongly accused of murder and convicted despite the efforts
of his lawyer, Matt Murdock (a.k.a. Daredevil). Ayala was shot dead
trying to escape, shortly before evidence emerged that belatedly proved
his innocence.

Family legacy

Angela Del Toro, Hector's niece and an FBI agent, inherited the Jade
Tiger amulets. Angela quit the FBI to understand the amulets, and
was trained in the use of their powers by Daredevil, becoming the
latest person to assume the White Tiger identity before being killed by
the Hand and resurrected as their servant. Having been healed by
Black Tarantula, she joined Daredevil in the Hand.

Hector's teenage sister Ava Ayala later appeared as the new White
Tiger.


Powers and abilities

As the White Tiger, Hector wore the three mystical tiger amulets (a head
and two paws), which were green in some versions and yellow in the
others, from the extra-dimensional realm of K'un-L'un, which were
originally worn by the Sons of the Tiger (Abe Brown, Bob Diamond, and
Lin Sun). When wearing the amulets, Hector's physical strength, speed,
stamina, agility, dexterity, reflexes & reactions, coordination,
balance, and endurance were all enhanced, although not to the point of
being invincible. The amulet also conferred on him the experience and
abilities of a master martial artist. The White Tiger only possessed his
enhanced abilities when wearing all three mystical tiger amulets, which
enemies made advantages of.


Other versions

House of M

In the House of M reality, Hector is captured by the Brotherhood who
threaten his family. He sends his family to South America and sends his
amulet to Angela Del Toro in the mail.

MC2

Hector Ayala appears as White Tiger in the MC2 reality. 


In other media

Television

-   The Hector Ayala incarnation of White Tiger is seen in the Ultimate
    Spider-Man episode "Kraven the Hunter". In the show, it is
    established that Hector was the second White Tiger (after
    his father) and was depicted as the father of Ava Ayala rather than
    her brother. After he was killed by Kraven the Hunter, his mantle
    passed to his daughter.

