WIDGET, alias KATHERINE "KATE" ANNE PRYDE-RASPUTIN is a fictional
character in the  Universe. The character was later revealed to be
an older, alternate version of SHADOWCAT (KATHERINE "KITTY" ANNE PRYDE),
from the Days of Future Past timeline. Before the revelation of Widget's
true identity, she was consistently referred to with masculine pronouns
(i.e. "he," "him," etc.).


Fictional character biography

Katherine Pryde was sent back into the body of her younger self by
Rachel Summers to try to avert their dystopian future. She failed;
instead of changing her own past, she created an alternate timeline that
diverged from her own when Senator Kelly was saved from an assassination
attempt. When she arrived back in her own body, she found all of her
friends, except Rachel, dead. Running for their lives, they were
cornered when the Phoenix Force appeared, having followed her out of
curiosity, and Kate persuaded it to physically transport Rachel to the
timeline Kitty had just visited and to keep her from remembering the
horrors she had experienced. After Rachel was gone, Kate was captured
and scanned using Sentinel technology in an attempt to reopen the time
warp and retrieve Rachel. The time warp reopened the same second that
Kate phased out of her inhibitor collar. As a result, both Kate and the
Sentinel scanning her fell into the time warp and merged.

Kitty reappeared in the timeline Rachel resided in and was rebuilt in a
small, metal, off-spherical body built by Tweedledope of the Crazy Gang.
Her mind scrambled by the "interference" from other timelines she felt,
she was amnesiac and went about everything with a childlike glee. Her
desire to eat metallic objects over-rode any sense of politeness. She
was responsible for shunting Kylun into an alternate dimension, where he
would grow, mature and have adventures of his own. Another incident led
to the switching of Moira MacTaggert and the train she was on with a
Nazi version of Moira and train. Widget's interactions with the Phoenix
power led her to inadvertently take the superhero team Excalibur
(including Rachel) through a number of alternate timelines in a
so-called "Cross-Time Caper". They soon learned a jolt of Phoenix power
into Widget would send them into another dimension at random. After this
was brought under control, Roma had her locked to the main 
Universe, Earth-616, preventing her from moving far from it. This began
to clear her mind, and she reconstructed her body, using materials from
the train the group had adventured so far in. After this, Rachel (who
had recovered her memories), Widget and Excalibur returned to Rachel's
original timeline and successfully reprogrammed the ruling Sentinels to
protect all life, ending their tyranny.

At the very end of the four-part limited series Excalibur: Sword of
Power, Widget was seen with Kang the Conqueror, observing events from
space. Apparently, Kang had orchestrated the events shown in the limited
series, but it is not revealed exactly why Widget was with him.


Catchphrase

During early appearances, Widget was known for the catchphrase, learned
from an excited, young Kylun: "Oh gosh, oh golly, oh wow!".

