WILD THING (RINA LOGAN) is a fictional character from , who
exists in the MC2 universe, an alternate future to the  Universe.
She is the daughter of the X-Men's Wolverine and the rogue mercenary
Elektra. She first appeared in J2 #5 and was created by Tom DeFalco
and Ron Lim.

An unrelated character named Wild Thing, who fought crime in a future
virtual reality world, had her own brief series under the  UK
imprint in 1993.


Publication history

Wild Thing first appeared in ' "MC2" line of spin-offs
(specifically, in J2 #5). She soon gained her own (short-lived)
series. The run enjoyed some acclaim, but due to low sales, the title
was cancelled after issue #5. Rina later appeared in the Last Hero
Standing miniseries.


Fictional character biography

Rina was the new girl at a high school, where some of the more popular
girls tried to make her life miserable, describing her as the daughter
of an immigrant and an unemployed biker. However, when her father Logan
(Wolverine) picked her up from school on his bike, opinions changed
about her, especially when they learned that her mother Elektra was a
wealthy martial arts expert. As Wild Thing, Rina saved a classmate from
a high-speed kidnapper, defeated a computerized assassin, stopped a
demonic invader and fought one of her teachers when he was turned into a
Prime Sentinel.

For a short period of time, Wild Thing was a member of a superhero team
composed of herself, Magneta, and Daze, but Wild Thing quit when Magneta
became villainous. When Loki kidnapped several of Earth's heroes
(including her father), Wild Thing's enhanced senses were pivotal in
finding them. Wild Thing is considered to be almost as dangerous as her
father, so many heroes give her a wide berth.


Powers and abilities

Rina is a mutant who possesses many of her father's mutant abilities
including an accelerated healing factor, superhumanly acute senses, and
superhuman strength, speed, agility, reflexes, coordination, balance,
and endurance. In addition to these, Rina possesses a set of
"Psi-Claws", a trick she learned from her "godmother" Psylocke, created
from psychokinetic energy, which are of similar appearance to her
father's adamantium claws (and her mother's sais), and which usually
inflict damage on a mental level rather than a physical one. However, it
has been shown that if she concentrates hard enough, her claws can
actually slice through steel and stone. Her fighting skills are
impressive, as she has been trained in martial arts from both of her
parents. Her skills are sufficient to enable her to engage J2 in
hand-to-hand combat and hold her own, despite the advantages his much
greater strength provides him.

