WILD CHILD (KYLE GIBNEY) alternately spelled WILHILD and also known as
WEAPON OMEGA and WILDHEART, is a fictional character appearing in 
Comics publications. The character has been active as both a superhero
and a supervillain. He has been a member of Alpha Flight, X-Factor, and
Weapon X.


Publication history

He was created by John Byrne and appeared in a cameo appearance in
Alpha Flight #1, but he did not appear in full until Alpha Flight
#11.


Fictional character biography

KYLE GIBNEY is a mutant who manifested a feral mutation during puberty;
this mutation granted him enhanced physical abilities and an increased
rate of regeneration. He also suffered from a bestial appearance, which
prompted his parents to throw him out of their house. Living on the
streets, he was kidnapped by the conspiratorial Secret Empire and
subjected to mind- and body-altering experiments. The experiments had
the consequence of making him psychologically unstable, and in
particular prone to violent and animalistic behavior. During this time,
he became acquainted with Dr. Valerie Cooper, a United States government
official who was unaware of the Secret Empire's true nature or
activities. He was freed by Wyre, the man who had unwittingly been the
source for the genetic material that was used in the Empire's
experiments.

Gibney (now WILD CHILD) was detained by the military and given over to
the custody of Canada's secret Department H, who oversaw the formative
Alpha Flight team. The Flight member Walter Langkowski, wanting to
protect the youth from the military, placed him in the trainee team
dubbed Gamma Flight. After Alpha Flight and its trainee groups were
officially disbanded, Gibney was recruited to join the first Omega
Flight team, a group of professional criminals. Alongside Omega Flight,
he battled Alpha Flight and was defeated. Alongside Omega Flight, he
battled Alpha Flight again in the West Edmonton Mall, and was defeated
by Madison Jeffries. Afterwards, he committed a series of murders,
which ended when he battled and was captured by Wolverine after he
severely injured and almost killed Alpha Flight member Heather
Hudson.

Wild Child was subsequently pardoned under unrevealed circumstances and
given membership in the new Gamma Flight. Alongside Gamma Flight, he
battled Alpha Flight. However, he then aided Gamma and Alpha Flight
against Llan the Sorcerer's forces. When Gamma Flight was disbanded
soon after that, he went berserk over his deprecated status and attacked
Pathway, another trainee. Gamma's leader Nemesis teleported him away
during a fight with Heather Hudson (then Guardian) and Wolverine, and he
was captured by Wolverine. Department H would later help him overcome
his psychological problems and cure his mental illness, train him in
unarmed combat, and place him as a special operative of the Canadian
government assigned to Alpha Flight under the codename WEAPON OMEGA.
Alongside Alpha Flight, he battled Diablo. He joined Alpha Flight's
"Core Alpha", met the second X-Factor team, and prevented the
mind-controlled Omerta from assassinating Italy's head of state. He
also fought a Wild Child doppelganger during the Infinity War. He
was attacked by Wyre but rescued by Alpha Flight. He searched for
Nemesis, and was held prisoner with her by Rok, but they were then
rescued by Weapon X. He defeated Wyre in personal combat; he then
learned about his true origin, and changed his codename to
WILDHEART. He aided Alpha Flight in combat with the Wrecker. He
also became romantically involved with his teammate Aurora.

His appearance eventually deteriorated back to his initial feral form,
which prompted him to leave Alpha Flight and Aurora. He followed Valerie
Cooper to the United States, where he joined the government operated
team X-Factor. There he began a romantic relationship with his teammate
Shard. His feral teammate Sabretooth frequently attempted, with little
success, to convince Wild Child to become a hunter and killer like
himself. He remained with the team until his body began mutating towards
a more feral form. He eventually degenerated to a near-mindless state
and was recruited (either willingly or via brainwashing) by the new
Weapon X team.

As part of his draft, Wild Child was paired with Sabretooth to try and
recruit Sunfire to the program. The Japanese mutant refused and badly
burned Sabretooth. When Wild Child mocked his burns Sabretooth viciously
sliced through Kyle's vocal cords and threatened to kill any Weapon X
medical staff who would operate on him, making sure that he would remain
mute.

His past flame, Aurora, was also recruited into the team but she was not
herself. After the Weapon X upgrades she became cocky and aloof,
snubbing the ugly Wild Child and even engaging in a relationship with
the horribly disfigured Director of the program. This became fuel for
the fire when Brent Jackson attempted to undermine the authority of the
Director Malcolm Colcord. Using Aurora's attitude toward him as motive,
Jackson convinced Wild Child to join his splinter group.

Decimation

Wild Child was seen on a terminal screen as one of the mutants depowered
after M-Day. His energy signature was found within the entity known
as The Collective, along with the energy signatures of many other
depowered mutants.

Post-Decimation

Wild Child recently demonstrated that his powers had returned as well as
previously erased memories. He even managed to best Wolverine in a quick
fight. He is now looking like his old Wildheart persona.

Wild Child appeared once more in conflict with Wolverine aiding Omega
Red and attempting to kill Logan. He was doing so under the order of the
enigmatic Romulus. His plan consisted of dropping Logan into molten
steel; however, he was interrupted by Omega Red. While Wild Child and
Omega Red battled each other, Logan managed to flee. Omega Red succeeded
in distracting Wild Child and thus was able to impale him on his coils
before throwing him into a vat of molten steel.


Powers and abilities

Kyle Gibney is a mutant who was experimented upon, genetically
engineered by Secret Empire scientists using DNA replicated from Wyre.
He has superhumanly acute senses, as well as superhuman speed, agility,
reflexes, coordination, balance, and endurance. His teeth and nails are
hardened and strong enough to rend substances as thick as bone. His body
heals at a rate several times greater than that of a normal human being
but not at the rate of Sabretooth's healing factor. He also has various
animal-like mutations common for "feral" mutants: leaf-shaped ears; eyes
with neither pupils nor irises; sharper-than-normal teeth with
pronounced, fang-like canines; and elongated fingernails and toenails
which can be used as claw-like weapons, as well as his hunched body
posture. He is an excellent hand-to-hand combatant with both special ops
and martial arts training from Wolverine as well as the Canadian
government's superhero Flight program, and is also trained in acrobatics
and gymnastics. In his bestial rages, he relies more on sheer ferocity
than fighting skill. As Wildheart, the savage, bestial side of his
personality was suppressed by an unknown drug, but his savage self still
threatened to overwhelm his sanity at all times.

As a result of injuries suffered at the hands of Sabretooth, who
prevented him from getting medical treatment, Wilhild was mute for a
time. However, along with his renewed powers, he seems to have regained
the ability to speak as well.


Other versions

Age of Apocalypse

In the Age of Apocalypse alternate timeline, Wild Child was a member of
the X-Men and was frequently partnered with Sabretooth. Wild Child
possessed a low level of intelligence (comparable to that of a dog) and
an inability to communicate verbally. As such, he was kept on a chain
leash to prevent him from harming any of the X-Men. For a time, he was
Sabretooth's sidekick, as Creed had rescued Wild Child from being a
prisoner of Apocalypse's son Holocaust but his current fate is unknown.
The 2005 Handbook to the Age of Apocalypse states that Kyle is away on a
secret mission with the other X-Men who were not present during the Age
of Apocalypse 10th Anniversary Limited Series, though when Sabretooth
and Blink revisited their home reality during a mission as Exiles,
Magneto and Rogue revealed to them that Kyle had run away after Victor
and Clarice had disappeared when they were taken away by the Tallus. He
was eventually found and claimed by Quentin Quire. He then moved to the
latter's reality to replace its deceased Wild Child, who was not
supposed to have died.

Wild Child has since been returned to the Age of Apocalypse as he is
seen following and later confronting the X-Force. He is killed
while, along with the X-Men from his world and X-Force, trying to stop
Archangel's genocidal plans on Earth-616.

House of M

In the House of M reality, Wild Child (alongside Arclight and Mentallo)
is a Red Guard member positioned in Australia to serve Exodus.

Mutant X

In the "Mutant X" alternate reality, Wild Child roams the wilds of
Canada, feral, along with that reality's version of Sabretooth and
Wolverine, both as feral as he. They operated under the name "The Pack."
For a time, the hero known as the Brute ran with them.

Weapon X: Days of Future Now

Kyle is still a part of the splinter group of Weapon X, run by Brent
Jackson.

Ultimate 

The Ultimate  version of Wild Child appears in Ultimate Comics:
Wolverine #2. He and a few of his soldiers were tracking Wolverine's
son, Jimmy Hudson to kill his adopted parents, the Hudsons: James Hudson
and Heather Hudson. Jimmy pounces but is almost killed by Wild Child
till Quicksilver appears and twists his neck around.


In other media

Television

-   Wild Child appeared in the X-Men episode "One Man's Worth." He has
    the look of the AoA Wild Child and is a member of Magneto's
    Mutant Resistance.

Films

-   The name Kyle Gibney also appeared in the computers of William
    Stryker in X2 on the list of known mutants along with Remy Lebeau,
    Ororo Munroe, and Garrison Kane among others.

