WILL O' THE WISP (DR. JACKSON ARVAD) is a fictional character, a
supervillain appearing in American comic books published by 
Comics. He is a physicist who gained control over the electromagnetic
attraction between his body's molecules, allowing him to adjust his
density (like the Vision). He is most often a foe of Spider-Man.


Fictional character biography

Jackson Arvad was born in Scranton, Pennsylvania. A former employee at
Roxxon Oil, he worked in the division dedicated to electromagnetic
research as a scientist. Under constant pressure of being fired, Arvad
spent lots of time furthering his work on electromagnetism, getting
little sleep in the process. He eventually ended up falling asleep on
the job, unable to save himself from a laboratory accident that would
change his life.

He ended up being caught in the electromagnetic field of a device he was
working on, the device weakening the electromagnetic attraction between
the molecules in his body, threatening his life. When his boss learned
of the accident, he decided to let Arvad die, but not before he demanded
any scientific applications the device would've had.

However, Arvad was able to save himself when he learned he was suddenly
able to control the level of attraction between his body's molecules.

Will o' the Wisp was forced by his employer, Jonas Harrow, to carry out
criminal activities. Spider-Man persuaded him instead to resist
Harrow.

He attempted to kill his employer, Jonas Harrow multiple times but was
stopped each time by either Spider-Man or inadvertently by Tarantula.
Finally, he opted to simply hypnotize the man into confessing his crimes
to the police.

Will o' the Wisp later took control of Killer Shrike's battle-suit and
kidnapped Dr. Marla Madison, who restored him to his corporeal form.
Will o' the Wisp later forced his former partner, James Melvin, to
expose the Brand Corporation's illicit activities to the news media.

Will o' the Wisp later first encountered The Outlaws while hunting down
Spider-Man in connection with a crime. Will o' the Wisp eventually
joined the Outlaws as an adventurer, to rescue the kidnapped daughter of
a Canadian official.

Civil War

Years later, Will o' the Wisp would show up in league with the Scarecrow
and later the Molten Man as part of the Chameleon's plot to get revenge
on Peter Parker after unmasking during Civil War.

He was recently seen among an army of supervillains organized by
Hammerhead that was captured by Iron Man and S.H.I.E.L.D. agents.

In The Punisher War Journal (2nd series) #4, the Punisher blew up a
bar where Will o' the Wisp was attending a wake for Stilt-Man, after
poisoning the guests. It was later mentioned in She-Hulk (volume 2)
#17 that "they all had to get their stomachs pumped and be treated for
third-degree burns."


Powers and abilities

As a result of exposure to Jackson Arvad and James Melvin's
"magno-chamber", Will-O'-The-Wisp has the ability to control the
electro-magnetic particles that make up his body. This enables him to
vary the density of his body to make part, or all, of his body
intangible or rock hard similar to the synthezoid Vision. In addition,
he also has superhuman strength at higher densities, and has superhuman
speed and durability. Also, he has the ability of flight, and at
subsonic speeds, Will-O'-The-Wisp appears to be nothing more than a
glowing sphere. Will-O'-The-Wisp can also mesmerize people for a short
period of time. Will-O'-The-Wisp can will the molecules of his body to
oscillate at a small distance from his body, making him look like an
ethereal glowing sphere.

Jackson Arvad is a brilliant scientist, especially in the field of
electromagnetics, with a Masters of Science degree in electrical
engineering.

