ACCESS (AXEL ASHER) is a fictional character owned by both  and
. He made his first appearance in  vs.  #1 (March
1996), a special crossover between the two companies. He was created as
both a way to explain the events of the story as well as a means to
enable future intercompany crossovers.


Publication history

First appearing in  vs.  #1 (March 1996), the character was
used to explain the events of the Amalgam Comics' publications, which
were a cooperative project between  and . Access
reappeared in two follow-up miniseries, /: All Access and
Unlimited Access.


Fictional character biography

Axel Asher first became aware of his extraordinary powers when the two
cosmic entities called "The Brothers," who represent the 
Multiverse and  Multiverse, became aware of each other (as
a result of the events in crossovers previously published by the
companies) and hurled their respective heroes into conflict with each
other's to prove their superiority over their counterpart; eleven
'champions' from each universe were selected to fight, the winner being
whoever immobilized the other first—some champions were too powerful to
ever be conclusively defeated by their opponents—and the overall winner
being the side with most victories.

Axel was just a normal teenager living in New York who came across an
old bum in an alley, who protected what seemed to be a cardboard box but
was actually a portal between the universes. He also revealed that Axel
was next in line to bear the powers and responsibilities of being "The
Access", the person in charge of preventing the universes from merging
into one. This happens because they were originally one universe that
split in two when The Brothers first fought; certain "fragments" of the
original universe remained. The "box" was one of them—Access was
another.

At the height of The Brothers' battles, when the last battle had
ended—with the  Universe being the overall winner with six
victories to five—the universes were combined into a single Amalgam
Universe by The Spectre and the Living Tribunal to avert the end of
existence. Access used shards of each universe hidden inside Batman and
Captain America to separate and restore both universes. Aided by Batman
and Captain America who, in many ways, were The Brothers in miniature,
Access helped stop the fight between The Brothers, saving the two
universes from destruction when the Brothers, looking at the two heroes,
realized how foolish their conflict with each other truly was.

Access has subsequently appeared in two sequels to the  vs. 
series. In the first, Access helped prevent Dr. Strangefate from
re-merging the two universes; in the second, he discovered that the "old
bum" was actually his own future self, and that a variant version of
himself had joined forces with Darkseid to avoid his and Access' shared
fate. He also discovered his powers were greater than he believed, and
he absorbed his evil self into himself and helped the heroes of both
universes defeat Darkseid's scheme. Despite having witnessed his future
self's demise, the defeat of his alternate evil self gives Access the
hope he needs that his future is fluid and not written in stone, and
therefore a chance to change his fate existed.

Access is briefly mentioned in a Superman/Fantastic Four crossover. When
Superman receives a (false) holographic message from his father Jor-El,
stating that Galactus was the one who destroyed Krypton, he flies off,
reflecting to himself "With the help of experts I'll find the monster.
And to find them... I need Access." Although not shown explicitly, this
suggests that Superman subsequently contacted Access to travel into the
 Universe to ask the FF for help tracking Galactus.

Access is mentioned again in the crossover Superman/Silver Surfer.

Access' first appearance was foreshadowed in the 1995 /
Green Lantern/Silver Surfer: Unholy Alliances, where the two heroes
joined forces to stop Thanos and Parallax from destroying their
universes. The final frames of the comic show an alleyway in New York
where a large cardboard box is beginning to emit powerful beams of
energy.

Access is now a native of both universes and his duty is to keep them
separate. If they start to overlap, the universes will merge into the
Amalgam Universe once again. Access must move from one universe to the
other keeping people from crossing over. If he stays in one place too
long, he can cause spontaneous crossovers to occur. Access usually works
out situations like this without anyone noticing that he is involved
(this is done to explain how the subsequent / crossovers occur.
Stories where  and  heroes appear on a "shared Earth" are
believed to be dimensional fluxes where the two universes have begun to
merge again. It has also been explained that once Access has restored
the timelines, the characters usually forget about the crossover, though
there are some exceptions, such as Jubilee getting Access to let her
visit Robin, with whom she had a brief romantic relationship during
 Vs ).

Despite shared ownership between  and , only 
has used the character once in a non-crossover appearance. In Green
Lantern #87, Access appears to Jade and claims to be looking for Kyle
Rayner. It is later revealed that he was looking for Rayner as backup
for Spider-Man, who was fighting Mantis and the Juggernaut at the time.
Having no success, he travels to the  universe in order to
find the Silver Surfer, only to return to the scene of the battle and
subconsciously summon Wonder Woman to aid Spider-Man.


Powers and abilities

Access has the ability to create and use interdimensional gateways
between the two companies' universes to teleport himself as well as
summon others to him. He can merge two people he touches if one is from
each universe, creating an "amalgamation" of the characters. The
gateways also permit time travel when crossing universes. He can feel
the presence of anything from one universe which is present in the other
which occasionally causes him great pain.

