The comic book character ACE THE BAT-HOUND was the canine crime-fighting
partner of Batman and Robin in  of the 1950s and 1960s.


Publication history

Ace debuted in Batman #92 (cover-dated July 1955) and was created by
Bill Finger and Sheldon Moldoff. Ace's creation was inspired by the
success of Krypto's debut in Adventure Comics #210 (March 1955),
and by German Shepherds from detective films and serials, such as Rin
Tin Tin and Ace the Wonder Dog.


Fictional character biography

Pre-Crisis

Ace was a German Shepherd originally owned by an engraver named John
Wilker. He was found by Batman and Robin after his master was kidnapped
by a gang of counterfeiters. Batman used Ace to try to locate Wilker.
Because he had already placed a large number of "lost dog" announcements
for Ace in his civilian identity of Bruce Wayne, he was concerned that
anyone recognizing Ace (who had a prominent star-shaped marking on his
forehead) might make the connection between Bruce Wayne and Batman. To
forestall that problem, he hastily improvised a hood-like mask for the
dog that incorporated the bat emblem as a dog tag dangling from Ace's
collar. Ace was subsequently christened The Bat-Hound by a criminal the
dog helped Batman to apprehend.

Wilker later took a new job that made it difficult for him to take care
of Ace, so he left the dog to Bruce Wayne. Wilker was never aware
that Ace was the Bat-Hound or that Bruce Wayne was Batman.

An early case involved Ace tracking down a mentally ancient weapons
expert who was using his own weapons to commit crimes. At one point,
Ace acquired super-powers thanks to Bat-Mite but this was
short-lived. He did have his own training. For example; his
specialized radio collar, when activated told him to don his own mask
(via a hands-free device) and track down Batman and Robin. Ace was
used less and less over time, and for various reasons. When Bruce was
overcome with night terrors, Robin suggested Ace sleeping aside him.

Ace disappeared from the Batman comics after Julius Schwartz took over
as editor in 1964. His last appearance was a cameo in a story where
Batman had lost his fighting spirit. Ace made only very occasional
comic book appearances in the years afterward.

Post-Crisis

A version of Ace is seen in the cosmic realm Limbo when the hero Animal
Man takes a trip through it.

A modern-day version of Ace was reintroduced in Batman #462 (June
1991), although he has been rarely seen in recent years. This version
was originally a guide dog belonging to a blind Native American named
Black Wolf, who called him "Dog". The dog assisted Batman in fighting
criminals from Black Wolf's tribe. Following Black Wolf's death, Batman
adopted Dog, renaming him Ace.

He did not wear a mask, nor was he ever referred to as Bat-Hound, and
has the appearance of a beagle-pug crossbreed (which exists in the real
world as a puggle) with a bat-shaped dark patch on his flank. Ace has at
times helped Batman on cases  and is depicted to be very
affectionate towards his owner and vice versa.

After Batman is disabled by the villain Bane, Azrael takes over the role
and ejects Ace, Nightwing, Robin and Harold Allnut from the Batcaves.
Harold, a trusted confidante of Batman, takes in Ace; they live in a
part of the caverns Azrael is unfamiliar with. To keep busy, Ace
enjoys playing with a robotic mouse built by Harold.

Ace disappeared without explanation after the events of the No Man's
Land storyline in the late 1990s. He cameos in Ambush Bug: Year None.

A traditional Ace was seen in Final Crisis: Superman Beyond 3D. He is
in limbo with other "forgotten characters", such as Gunfire, Geist,
Hardhat of the Demolition Team and Merry Man of the Inferior Five. Merry
Man explains everyone is here where no stories exist because nobody is
writing about them. Despite this, Superman and his allies work to rescue
all the residents of Limbo, who then help assist in the battle against
the cosmic threat of Mandrakk.

The original Ace appeared in a flashback scene in Batman Inc._ #4, thus
making the current canon status of the Post-Crisis Ace unclear. In this
story, Ace is trying to play with Robin who is fuming over Kathy Kane,
Batwoman, and her influence on Batman.

The New 52

In Batman and Robin Vol 1: Born to Kill, as part of The New 52 (a
reboot of the  universe), Bruce is seen purchasing a black
Great Dane from a kennel. He later gives this dog to his son, Damian,
who names him Titus, though writer Peter Tomasi stated in an interview
that he considered naming the dog Ace. Damian rejects the dog at
first, but eventually bonds with him.


Other versions

In Mark Waid's and Alex Ross's Kingdom Come miniseries, Ace is
portrayed as the giant winged steed of the Fourth World Batwoman. Ace is
also mentioned in Howard Chaykin's Batman/Houdini crossover. During a
seance attended by Bruce Wayne and mystic debunker Harry Houdini, Ace
was referred to as Bruce Wayne's childhood pet. In the Frankenstein
pastiche Castle of the Bat, Dr Bruce Wayne tests his theories by
creating a literal Bat-Hound: a dog with some of the attributes of a
bat. A version of Ace appears in multiple issues of Tiny Titans, a
comic created for younger readers.

Pre-Crisis, Superman's Batman-like identity of Nightwing included a
Kandorian counterpart to the Bat-Hound, a telepathic dog named
"Nighthound".


In other media

Television

-   The character appeared in the late 1990s animated series Batman
    Beyond, with vocal effects done by Frank Welker. This version is
    Bruce Wayne's pet/guard dog that's a Great Dane mix. He made his
    first appearance the series premiere episode "Rebirth" as a fiercely
    loyal pet to his aged master. At first, Ace did not like Batman
    (Terry McGinnis). But after he and Batman were able to help each
    other on several missions, Terry earned Ace's affection and loyalty.
    In the episode "Splicers", Terry briefly reflecting that Ace's
    loyalty was one of the 'small rewards' that he had gained as Batman.
    The episode "Ace in the Hole" reveals Ace's origins: he was a puppy
    that was bought by illegal dog-fighting ring leader Ronnie Boxer but
    managed to escape this abusive, violent life. He soon found fellow
    tormented soul Bruce at Crime Alley during the anniversary of his
    parents' murders. After he was injured by a member of the Jokerz
    gang during an attempt to save Bruce from the thug, Bruce took the
    dog in his personal care. Since there was no one to claim Ace and
    both the elder man and the dog desired companionship, Wayne took him
    in as his owner. After encountering Boxer once again, Ace and Batman
    stop Boxer's attempt to use synthetic growth hormones to turn dogs
    into monsters. Ace also plays a role in the movie Batman Beyond:
    Return of the Joker when he engaged a member of the Jokerz that had
    been spliced with hyena DNA and then assisted Batman by attacking
    the Joker which freed Batman from captivity and damaged the controls
    for Joker's new satellite weapon system.
-   The character has also been alluded during other  Animated
    Universe productions. In the movie Batman: Mystery of the
    Batwoman, Harvey Bullock sarcastically referred to a 'Bat-Hound'
    during Batwoman's reign to which Tim Drake commented that a dog
    could help "sniff out clues". The Justice League Unlimited episode
    "Epilogue" suggested that the dog might be named after the Ace from
    an early incarnation of the Royal Flush Gang that Batman
    (Bruce Wayne) briefly befriended before her death.

[Ace in the cartoon series Krypto the Superdog.]

-   In the Cartoon Network animated series Krypto the Superdog that
    stars Krypto (Superman's childhood dog), Ace the Bat-Hound (voiced
    by Scott McNeil) makes occasional appearances and is once again a
    crimefighting ally of Batman—although the Dark Knight himself does
    not appear on the show. In this series, Ace, much like Batman, is
    equipped with various gadgets and equipment as an aid in his
    crime-fighting efforts. In one episode, he met the Dog Star Patrol
    and helped them find their missing member Hot Dog. His enemies
    include the Joker's hyenas Bud and Lou, the Penguin's trained birds
    (Artie the Puffin, Griff the Vulture, and Waddles the Penguin), and
    Catwoman's pet cat Isis (who flirts with Ace much like Catwoman
    flirts with Batman). Ace has a Batwoman-style glider he uses for
    more speed. He considers himself to be Batman's partner, rather than
    his pet, and becomes annoyed when someone calls him the latter.
-   Ace the Bat-Hound was alluded in The Batman animated series when
    Alfred Pennyworth remarks "Perhaps I should equip the Batcave with a
    doggie door, should Bat-Hound decide to join the gang." during
    Barbara Gordon's introduction as Batgirl.
-   Ace the Bat-Hound appears in Batman: The Brave and the Bold, with
    vocal effects done by Dee Bradley Baker. In the episode "Legends of
    the Dark Mite!", he helps Batman fight Catman and an endangered
    tiger he unleashes on Batman. Ace manages to corner Catman up a
    tree, and Batman rewards him with a bat shaped treat after getting
    him to heel. Ace is later seen in the episode's main plot as a guise
    Bat-Mite created. When Batman see two Aces, Batman knows something
    is wrong. At the end, Batman touches Ace's collar to see if he is a
    fake, but he's the real thing and tells Ace that he was just
    making sure. Ace makes an appearance in the episode "The Siege of
    Starro! Part One" where he is seen when Batman contacts Booster
    Gold. In the episode "The Plague of the Prototypes!", Ace is friends
    with Proto (Batman's prototype Bat-Robot) and encourages him to save
    Batman from Black Mask. Later, using his jet-pack, he helps Batman
    and Proto track down and deactivate Black Mask's bombs.
-   Ace the Bat-Hound appears in the " Super-Pets" sketch of 
    Nation Shorts, voiced by Diedrich Bader.

Video games

-   Ace the Bat-Hound appears as a playable character in Lego Batman 3:
    Beyond Gotham.

Books

-   The appeal of Ace is discussed in 'Mythology: The  Art Of
    Alex Ross'. Ross feels that as a child, the idea of Batman having a
    dog is 'cool' but as an adult the same idea is 'outrageous'. Art
    from Ross and 'Batman: Annual 1 (1961)' is showcased.
-   Ace frequently appears is the Super Pet series of books published
    by Capstone.

