ADAM STRANGE is a science fiction superhero published by .
Created by editor Julius Schwartz with a costume designed by Murphy
Anderson, he first appeared in Showcase #17 (November 1958).

In May 2011, Adam Strange placed 97th on IGN's Top 100 Comic Book Heroes
of All Time.


Publication history

In 1957,  editorial director Irwin Donenfeld held a meeting
with editors Jack Schiff and Julius Schwartz in his office, asking them
each to create a new science fiction hero: one from the present, and one
from the future. Given first pick, Schiff chose to create one from the
future (Space Ranger). However, Schwartz was happy with the pick,
feeling that readers would more readily identify with a hero from the
present. He conceived the idea of an Earth man repeatedly traveling to a
planet in the Alpha Centauri star system using a Zeta-beam altered by
space radiation, and named his character Adam after the first man on
Earth according to the Abrahamic faiths, since Adam Strange was the
first Earthman on another planet.

Adam Strange debuted in issues #17–19 of the tryout series Showcase,
published November 1958 – March 1959. The first artwork of the character
was a cover for Showcase #17 by Murphy Anderson; though Schwartz
rejected the drawing and commissioned a new one by Gil Kane, Anderson's
costume design was retained. Schwartz then assigned the scribing of
the stories to Gardner Fox and the penciling to Mike Sekowsky.
Schwartz and Fox devised the plots for the stories in Schwartz's office,
and Fox would write the scripts at home. A science major, Schwartz
specialized in giving Fox scientific pointers that gave the Adam Strange
tales a plausibility that made them stand out from most science fiction
of the time.

Sales on the three-issue Showcase tryout were enough to justify giving
Adam Strange a slot in Mystery in Space, which ran in issues #53–100
and 102. Though Schwartz and Fox continued their work on the character,
Schwartz gave the penciler assignment to Carmine Infantino instead of
Sekowsky. Most issues were inked by Murphy Anderson (although Bernard
Sachs, Joe Giella and Sid Greene did a few issues each). In the Justice
League of America comic book, the Flash mentioned Adam Strange as a
possible new member for the Justice League. When a letter to the editor
pointed out the group had not met Adam Strange and could not have heard
of him, as all his heroics took place on Rann, Schwartz and Fox wrote a
story showing how the Justice League came to Rann and how Adam Strange
saved them from Kanjar Ro. The story was published in Mystery in Space
#75 and won the Alley Award for the "Best Book-Length Story" of 1962.

As of #92, Jack Schiff replaced Schwartz as editor of Mystery in Space
and Lee Elias became the artist for Adam Strange. Following the
discontinuation of the Adam Strange stories, reprints were presented in
Strange Adventures #217 through 244 (except for #222, which instead
has a new story with Strange, written by Denny O'Neil, while #226 has a
new Strange text story, by Fox, with illustrations by Anderson).

Through the 1970s, the character was a regular presence in the 
Universe despite having no series of his own. In the 1980s, Alan Moore
wrote a retcon of Adam Strange's reason for his visits to Rann. In this
retcon, the population of the planet, the majority of whom view the
Terran with contempt, is sterile, and Adam Strange is there to be a
breeding stud. In a 1990 limited series, The Man of Two Worlds, Adam
learns of the population's opinion of him and Alanna dies giving birth
to their daughter Aleea. In JLA #20 (July 1998), Alanna is revealed to
be alive, and is briefly reunited with her husband and daughter before
Adam is transported back to Earth.

In 2013, Jeff Lemire said he intends to introduce a New 52 incarnation
of Adam Strange at some point in Justice League Canada, a series
scheduled to launch in Spring 2014. In January 2014 Lemire announced
that the series would instead be titled Justice League United, and
that it would feature Alanna as well as Adam.


Fictional character biography

Strange is an archeologist suddenly teleported from Peru, Earth to the
fictional planet Rann through a "Zeta-Beam". Upon his arrival, he is
attacked by one of the planet's predators and rescued by a dark-haired
woman called Alanna. She takes him to her father Sardath, who explains
that the Zeta-Beam was transmitted at Earth in the hopes that whatever
form of intelligent life lived there would trace it back to Rann, and
theorizes that in the 4.3 years it takes the Zeta-Beam to reach earth,
it was altered by space radiation into a transportation beam. Called on
to protect the planet from extraterrestrial threats using Rann's
technology, Strange grew to care for the planet and its inhabitants,
especially Alanna. Eventually, the effects of the beam wore off,
automatically returning Strange to Earth at the exact point of
departure, but not before Sardath had given him a schedule of beam
firings allowing him to periodically return to the planet. Using
mathematical calculations, he was able to determine the exact time and
the precise locations at which the Zeta-Beams would arrive. He travels
the world and intercepts them, to defend Rann and be with Alanna.

Justice League of America

During Grant Morrison's revival of the Justice League of America
series, Mark Waid featured Adam Strange when he filled in for Morrison.
Adam Strange kidnapped the entirety of the Justice League and put them
to forced labor to reconstruct Rann, as part of a ruse to rescue Alanna
and her father. Strange returned to Rann in JLA: Heaven's Ladder
(2000) and presumably reunited with his family shortly after.

Planet Heist

Planet Heist, a 2004 eight-issue limited series, written by Andy
Diggle, penciled by Pasqual Ferry and colored by Dave McCaig, replaced
Adam Strange's costume with a spacesuit that allows for interstellar
travel. Adam was prepared to relocate to Rann permanently when he was
informed that the planet was destroyed and that he was blamed for its
destruction. In fact, Sardath transported Rann to another dimension to
save the planet from the cosmic being Starbreaker. Adam, with the help
of the Omega Men and the Darkstars, among others, saved Rann and
defeated the evil being.

Rann-Thanagar War

When Rann was moved, its orbit was believed to have pushed the planet
Thanagar closer to its sun, destroying much of the surface (it was later
discovered that the actions of Superboy-Prime moved Thanagar). Many
Thanagarians were relocated to Rann, but enmity between the two races
resulted in a war, depicted in Rann-Thanagar War. Strange, working
with Hawkman, Hawkwoman, Kyle Rayner and Kilowog, tried to end the
conflict, a six-issue precursor to 's 2005 to 2006 limited series and
 crossover event, Infinite Crisis. Strange was eventually able to
end the war when he discovered evidence of Superboy-Prime's role in
Thanagar's relocation.

52

Adam was stranded on a paradise-like planet with Animal Man and
Starfire. As a result of a teleportation accident involving the
Zeta-Beam, he lost both of his eyes but in spite of his injuries, he
tried to fix a damaged spaceship so that the trio might return home.
After being attacked by Devilance the Pursuer, they eventually escaped
having realized that the entire planet was a trap.

This ragtag team made a stand against the villainess Lady Styx, whose
undead legions were ravaging planets across the galaxy. With Styx
presumably defeated and Animal Man seemingly killed, Strange and
Starfire continued their journey back to Earth and Rann, still pursued
by angry Lady Styx followers. With Starfire wounded in one such battle,
and their ship breaking apart and malfunctioning, Adam was saved by Mogo
and a rookie Green Lantern. Brought to Rann, Strange was equipped with
new eyes, cloned by Aleea and genetically engineered to grant him vision
of the entire electromagnetic spectrum. He was briefly questioned by the
Green Lantern Corps about the secret of 52 but, when an emergency arose
during the interrogation, the Lanterns offered to respond in Strange's
stead so he could return to his wife.

Countdown to Adventure

Adam Strange joined Animal Man and Starfire in the series Countdown to
Adventure written by Adam Beechen in August 2007.

In issue #1, Adam finds himself replaced as Rann's protector by CHAMP
HAZARD, a former actor from Earth. However, Hazard has no regard for any
life and is responsible for ending his battles in a horrifically bloody
way. It appears Champ was infected by a madness plague created by Lady
Styx before leaving Earth, and has infected one third of the people on
Rann, causing them to riot and say "Believe in Her." Adam and his family
escape to Earth, where he enlists the aid of Animal Man and Starfire,
eventually discovering a way to cure the plague and restore the
infectees to normal.

Rann-Thanagar Holy War

Adam Strange, along with many of the  space heroes including Hawkman,
Starfire, The Weird, and the Prince Gavyn Starman, battles Synnar the
Demiurge. Adam Strange's actions in this story result in the
depopulation of Prince Gavyn's Throneworld at the hands of Lady Styx.
Later, to defeat Synnar and Lady Styx, Rann's atmosphere was explosively
discharged into outer space with Rann's entire population Zeta-beamed to
Throneworld. Strange also discovers in this story that he is a member of
the so called Aberrant Six.

Strange Adventures

With Throneworld renamed New Rann, Adam Strange once more teams up with
the  space heroes to investigate why some of the galaxy's stars are
disappearing. It is discovered from the future spirit of Synnar that he
is destined to be one of 'The Aberrant Six', a group critical to
preventing the Synnar of today (trapped in The Weird's body) from
destroying the universe. Ultimately the Aberrant Six did not form and
the future Synnar was forced to leave, but not before Captain Comet's
mercenary friend Eye was killed by Synnar's supreme god-enemy to prevent
the forming of the Six. Comet was entrusted with Eye's robot companion
Orb until she returns, told by Synnar that when that happens he will
"continue his negotiations – All has changed, but remains as it was".
Adam Strange realizes that one day Synnar will return and force him to
join his Aberrant Six.

R.E.B.E.L.S._

Adam Strange then found himself joining up with Vril Dox as part of his
R.E.B.E.L.S.. Adam Strange helped to save the Vega system and several
galaxies by defeating Starro the Conqueror. It was also around this time
that Adam Strange visited New Krypton to protest the accord that their
Council reached with the Thanagarians. Explaining that the Rannians have
recently been on the losing end in a war with the Thanagarians, Adam
questions the judgment of the Council in reaching this accord. Whilst
there he aided Superman who was investigating a murder.

The plight of Rann's people was soon resolved by Vril Dox, seeking to
restore his reputation after Starro the Conqueror stole L.E.G.I.O.N.
from him and used it to enslave its client worlds. Dox Zeta-beamed Rann
into the Vega system, in the orbit previously held by the now destroyed
planet Tamaran, and proceeded to terraform Rann and make it suitable to
sustain life again.

The restoration of the planet Rann wasn't Dox's only reason for
relocating it into the Vega system. First, by putting Rann into
Tamaran's orbit, it restored the gravitional balance to the Vega system,
which had been thrown off by Tamaran's destruction. Secondly, in
exchange for restoring their planet, the people of Rann agreed to let
Dox rebuild L.E.G.I.O.N. headquarters on Rann.

Tamaranian refugees, led by Blackfire, attacked Rann believing that
since the planet was in Tamaran's orbit they had claim to it. The
violence was ended when Vril Dox, who was off-world at the start of the
conflict, arrived with Thanagarian warships and stopped the fighting
without bloodshed on either side. As it turned out, Dox was off-world
negotiating an official end to the Rann-Thanagar War, using Rann's
new-found distance from Thanagar and change in leadership on both sides
as leverage.

Dox then went on to mediate the tension between the Rannians and the
Tamaranians by proposing that the Tamaranians live on Rann's uninhabited
southern continent.

Adam Strange as well as protector of Rann would also become a senior
commander of L.E.G.I.O.N. ensuring peace with the Green Lantern Corps.
He also helped create an alliance between Rannians, Tamaranians and
L.E.G.I.O.N. after defeating Starro the Conqueror, ensuring security for
Rann, the Vega System and the galaxy.

"The New 52"

Adam Strange was re-introduced as part of the New 52 in Justice League
United#1. In this version he is a Canadian archaeologist, who has a
relationship with Alanna (now Alanna Lewis, a former student of his).


Other versions

-   Adam Strange has a descendant, also named Adam Strange, in the
    future of the Space Ranger, as seen in Mystery in Space #94
    (September 1964).
-   The Silver Age Adam Strange is one of the "ghosts" in the empty
    "Planet Krypton" restaurant in The Kingdom: Planet Krypton #1.
-   Adam Strange made a brief appearance in Elseworlds' JLA: Another
    Nail when all time periods meld together. In the original series
    JLA: The Nail, he is found dead in Earth orbit by Hal Jordan after
    the Zeta Beam taking him to Rann was blocked by a force field
    surrounding Earth.
-   In Darwyn Cooke's : The New Frontier, Adam Strange is confined
    in Arkham Asylum because of his belief he has traveled to
    another world. It is also revealed this was done so the government
    can keep an eye on him. When the Centre appears off the coast of
    Florida, Dr. Leslie Thompkins returns his jet pack and energy weapon
    to him. It is Adam's idea to use Ray Palmer's shrinking device to
    destroy the threat, having read an article about his work
    while confined.
-   The 2009 weekly comics broadsheet Wednesday Comics featured an
    interpretation of Adam Strange by artist and writer Paul Pope that
    drew much more directly from the John Carter stories which inspired
    the character, casting the planet Rann as a much more fantasy-like
    world, and Alanna as a scantily clad warrior princess.


In other media

Television

-   In the TV series Buck Rogers in the 25th Century, during the
    episode "The Plot To Kill a City: Episode 2" (written by Alan
    Brennert, who had also written comics for ) an announcement over a
    spaceport's loudspeaker system asks for "Doctor Adam Strange from
    Alpha Centauri" to "please report to the reservations desk."
-   Adam Strange appears in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold episode
    "Mystery in Space" voiced by Michael T. Weiss. Batman is called over
    to Adam's home planet and he brings Aquaman as well. All three
    alongside Adam Strange's wife Alanna go in to stop the Gordanians
    led by General Kreegaar from obtaining the Eye of Zared from the
    bottom of Rann's oceans. Before he can get his wife away from the
    Gordanians, the effects of the Zeta Ray wears off sending him
    to Earth. He had to trace another one to get back to Rann only to
    find out that Rann is now in danger. After the enemy successfully
    gets the Eye of Zared and starts attacking, Adam Strange starts to
    have his doubts. His confidence is rekindled by Aquaman, and he goes
    in to save Alanna, and buy Aquaman and Batman some time to create a
    solar eclipse to stop the Eye of Zared forcing General Kreegaar's
    army to surrender. In the series' third season, Adam appears in one
    of four vignettes in "Four Star Spectacular!", titled "World's War."
    He is preparing to return to Rann with an anniversary present for
    his wife when he witnesses dozens of Zeta Beams strike Gotham City.
    Adam allows himself to be teleported and discovers that Kanjar Ro
    plans to intercept a Zeta Beam, teleport a negaton bomb to Rann,
    wipe out the population, and use the planet as a base of operations.
    The hero manages to teleport Kanjar Ro and his bomb to a swamp
    world, and the space pirate disarms the bomb just in time, only to
    run afoul of an alien monster.
-   Adam Strange appears as a teenager in Young Justice: Invasion
    episode "Happy New Year" voiced by Michael Trucco. Besides his
    history of ending up on Rann, he tells the team that Rann has a
    bounty on all Justice Leaguers after some of them were controlled by
    Vandal Savage to attack Rimbor. He and Alanna, who is the same age,
    are also in "Earthlings" where they help Superboy, Miss Martian, and
    Beast Boy in their efforts to find the Kroloteans and their Zeta Ray
    technology by distracting Rannian authorities and fighting the
    armored Kroloteans. In "Salvage", Adam activates a Zeta Shield to
    cover Earth and protect it from future alien invasions.

Film

-   Adam Strange appears briefly in Justice League: The New Frontier.
    He is glimpsed in one of John Jones' news clippings early on in
    the film. During the climax, he is one of the heroes who answers the
    call to fight the Centre, but has no speaking role.

Video game

-   Adam Strange appears in the  Universe Online video game.


Awards and reception

The character and series of the same name have received several awards
over the years, including the 1967 and 1968 Alley Awards for Strip Most
Desired for Revival. IGN ranked Adam Strange as the 97th greatest comic
book hero of all time stating that "If by fluke we were given the chance
to ride a Zeta Beam[sic] into space, meet a sexy alien princess[sic] on
the planet Rann, and fight extraterrestrial threats with high-tech
weaponry, I[sic] wouldn’t want to go back to mundane Earth-life either.
That makes us completely sympathetic to Adam Strange’s plight."


Tributes

Heroic Publishing's Eternity Smith (vol. 2) #3 includes a backup story
called "The Threat of the Sensuous Siren", in which the character
Skylark Smith sees a copy of Mystery in Space #77 and daydreams about
Eternity Smith and herself having an adventure in the roles of Adam
Strange and Alanna. Most of the story's script and pencils imitate the
style of Fox and Infantino, and the plot is loosely based on "Siren of
the Space Ark", an Adam Strange adventure which appeared in Mystery in
Space #89.


Bibliography

-   Justice League #25–26 – "Strange Days"
-   Justice League Unlimited #4 – "Local Hero"

