ALAN SCOTT is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books
published by , and the first superhero to bear the name GREEN
LANTERN. He was created by Martin Nodell and Bill Finger, first
appearing in the comic book All-American Comics #16, published in
1940.

Alan Scott fights evil with the aid of a magic ring that grants him a
variety of supernatural powers.


Publication history

The original Green Lantern was created by an American artist named
Martin Nodell. Nodell mentions Richard Wagner's opera cycle The Ring
of the Nibelung and the sight of a trainman's green railway lantern as
his inspiration. After seeing this opera, Nodell sought to create a
superhero who wielded a variety of magical powers from a magic ring,
which he regularly recharged from a green lantern. Nodell wanted a
colorful and interesting costume for his character, deriving from
elements of Greek mythology. As Nodell recalled in an undated,
latter-day interview, [All-American Comics #16. Cover art by Sheldon
Moldoff.] Nodell chose the name "Alan Scott" by flipping through New
York telephone books until he got two names he liked.

The character of Alan Scott made his debut in All-American Comics #16
(July 1940), fighting crime under the masked identity of "Green
Lantern". He also appeared as part of the superhero team Justice Society
of America in All Star Comics #3 (Winter 1940). He served as the
team's second chairman in #7, but departed following that issue and
returned a few years later, remaining a regular character. His villains
tended to be ordinary humans, but he did have a few paranormal ones,
such as the immortal Vandal Savage and the zombie Solomon Grundy. Green
Lantern proved popular and was given his own series, Green Lantern,
later that year. Most of his adventures were set in New York.

In 1941, Alan Scott was paired with a sidekick named Doiby Dickles, a
rotund Brooklyn taxi driver, who would appear on a regular basis until
1949. In 1948, Alan also got a canine sidekick named Streak. The dog
proved so popular that he starred in his own solo side-stories.

After World War 2, superheroes declined in popularity. Green Lantern
was cancelled in 1949 after 38 issues and All-American Comics dropped
superheroes in favor of westerns. Alan Scott's final Golden Age
appearance was in All-Star Comics #57 (1951). He remained out of
publication for 12 years, and even after his revival he never got
another solo series.

In 1959,  editor Julius Schwartz reinvented Green Lantern as a
science fiction hero. The new Green Lantern, named Hal Jordan, was
empowered by alien masters to serve as an interstellar lawman and had
many adventures set in outer space. His powers were similar to Alan's
but he was otherwise completely unrelated—Alan Scott never existed as
far as the new stories were concerned. Hal Jordan proved popular, but
readers still had an interest in the old Green Lantern. Some years
later, Alan Scott reappeared as a guest star in The Flash #137
(1963). To avoid continuity conflicts with the Hal Jordan character,
Alan Scott and all his old stories were written as being from a parallel
universe. For most of the 1960s and 1970s, Alan Scott made guest
appearances in books belonging to Silver Age characters, visiting their
universe through magical or technological means. In 1976, he appeared
regularly alongside his Justice Society comrades in the revived
All-Star Comics and later Adventure Comics in stories set in the
1970s. In 1981,  launched All-Star Squadron, which featured
Alan Scott and the Justice Society in a World War 2 setting.

[Alan Scott's costume from Earth 2 #3 (2012).] In 1986, the editors at
 decided that all its characters should exist within the same
setting and effected this change with the Crisis on Infinite Earths
miniseries. Alan Scott now shared the same fictional world as Hal
Jordan.  decided to write the character out of continuity in a
one-shot book entitled Last Days of the Justice Society, in which he
was "forever" trapped in an extra-dimensional realm. The character was
brought back in the 1990s due to fan interest. Rather than update Alan
Scott as a contemporary young hero as had been done with Batman and
Superman, Alan Scott was instead written as a veteran of World War 2
with a magically prolonged lifespan. To distinguish Alan Scott from Hal
Jordan, his superhero codename was for a time changed to "Sentinel" and
he lost his magic ring, manifesting his powers through his glowing hands
instead. In JSA #50 (2003) he regained his classic codename and
ring, though he remained apart from Hal Jordan's Green Lantern Corps. He
was a regular character in JSA and Justice Society of America.

In 2011,  again rebooted their fictional properties, and their
new version of Alan Scott once again exists on Earth-2, where Hal Jordan
and his Green Lantern Corps do not exist. The new Alan Scott is no
longer a grizzled veteran of World War 2, but a fresh young superhero.
He first appears in Earth 2 #3 (2012) with a completely redesigned
sleek, solid green suit with no cape.


Fictional character biography

Golden and Silver Ages

Discovery

Thousands of years ago, a mystical "green flame" fell to Earth in
ancient China as a meteor. A voice in the flame predicted that it would
act three times: once to bring death, once to bring life, and once to
bring power. For the first prophecy, a lamp-maker crafted the green
metal of the meteor into a lamp. In fear and as punishment for what they
thought sacrilege, the local villagers killed him, only to be destroyed
by a sudden burst of the green flame. For the second, in modern times,
the lamp came into the hands of a patient of a mental institution who
fashioned the lamp into a modern train lantern. The green flame restored
him to sanity and gave him a new life. For the third, by 1940, after
having already fulfilled the first two-thirds of this prophecy, the
lantern fashioned from the meteoric metal fell into the hands of Alan
Scott, a young railroad engineer. Following a railroad bridge collapse,
the flame instructs Scott in how to fashion a ring from its metal, to
give him fantastic powers as the superhero Green Lantern. He adopts a
colorful costume of red, purple, yellow, and brown. He becomes a
crimefighter in his first adventure, defeating the crooks who caused the
accident. He also discovers his powers' weakness to wood when he is
bludgeoned with a club. Alan is a founding member of the Justice
Society of America, and is its second chairman.

Scott uses his ring to fly, walk through solid objects by "moving
through the fourth dimension", paralyze or blind people temporarily,
hypnotize them, create rays of energy, melt metal as with a blowtorch,
and cause dangerous objects to glow, among other things. It could also
allow him and others to time travel. Occasionally, he uses it to read
minds or create solid objects and force fields in the manner usually
associated with fellow Green Lantern Hal Jordan. His ring could protect
him against any object made of metal, but would not protect him against
any wood- or plant-based objects. This was said to be because the
green flame was an incarnation of the strength of "green, growing
things".

During the 1940s, Green Lantern seemed to alternate between serious
adventure, particularly when Solomon Grundy, his nemesis, appeared and
light comedy, usually involving his sidekick, Doiby Dickles. Toward the
end of his Golden Age adventures, he was reduced to the role of a
sidekick to Streak the Wonder Dog, a heroic canine cut from the mold of
Rin-Tin-Tin and Lassie.

Justice Society of America

[Green Lanterns of two worlds:The Silver Age Hal Jordan meets the Golden
Age Alan Scott in Green Lantern #40 (Oct. 1965). Cover art by Gil Kane
& Murphy Anderson.]

A part of Scott's early history is filled out with retroactive
continuity. All-Star Squadron Annual #3 states that the JSA fought the
villain Ian Karkull, who inadvertently imbued them with life energy
stolen from an innocent victim. The energy retarded their aging,
allowing Scott and several other members, as well as their spouses, to
remain active into the late 20th century without infirmity. The events
of that incident also led Scott, who had failed to save the victim from
whom the energy was stolen, to take a leave of absence from the JSA,
explaining why the character vanished from the roster for a time.

Scott was a member of the Justice Society of America in 1951 when the
team was investigated by the "Joint Congressional Un-American Activities
Committee," a fictional organization based on the real-life House
Un-American Activities Committee. They were accused of possible
communist sympathies and asked to reveal their identities. The members
declined the offer, and many of the members retired in the 1950s.

The team re-forms in the 1960s with Scott as a member, though little is
known of their adventures during this time, save for stories about their
team-ups with the Justice League of America, the parallel world
Earth-One, and cross-universe adventures Scott shares with Earth-One's
Green Lantern, Hal Jordan.

From the late 1940s to the 1970s, Scott runs the Gotham Broaasting
Company (GBC), which ends up ruined by creditors. After this, the Psycho
Pirate temporarily drives Alan mad and the rest of the JSA help him
recover. Jay Garrick helps him start a new career as a scientist and he
eventually regains control of the GBC, which he continues to run.

Progeny

It was eventually revealed that in the late 1960s that Scott marries the
woman with the dual identity Rose and Thorn. The two have a pair of
children who would grow up to become the superheroes Jade and Obsidian
of the team Infinity, Inc..

In the 1980s, Scott married his reformed former nemesis, Molly Mayne,
also known as The Harlequin, reconciling with his son and daughter.

Post-Crisis on Infinite Earths

The Last Days of the Justice Society of America Special (1986)
one-shot tells how Adolf Hitler caused a massive wave of destructive
energy to erupt over the post-Crisis Earth in 1945. Scott and the JSA,
fresh from burying their Earth-Two comrades Robin and Huntress, enter
into a limbo dimension in order to fight an eternally recurring
Ragnarok.

Green Lantern vol 3 #19 attempted to retcon Alan Scott's origin and
power ring to accommodate the changes made by Crisis on Infinite
Earths. In this story, Alan's ring originally belonged to a Green
Lantern named Yalan Gur, who was so favored by the Guardians of the
Universe that they removed the yellow impurity from his ring (which the
Guardians deliberately placed in all the GL rings to limit their power
and could be removed at their discretion). However, Yalan Gur abused his
power and interfered with the inhabitants of ancient China. The
Guardians then substituted a weakness for wood that allowed the local
peasants to successfully attack and mortally wound Yalan with simple
wooden clubs. Yalan flew into the sky and raged against the Guardians.
His body burned in the atmosphere, becoming the green metallic meteorite
that ultimately became Alan Scott's lantern. Yalan's spirit also
possessed the metal, promising death in his rage and life when he
realized his mistakes (the first two prophecies of the green metal,
which were fulfilled). When Alan received the lantern, the spirit
directed Alan to create the power ring and persona of Green Lantern,
complete with the ring's weakness to wood.

The Return

Through the machinations of Waverider, the JSA teammates are able to
leave limbo and begin living in the post-Crisis Earth they had fought to
save. The mini-series is followed by Justice Society of America
(1992–1993), which shows how Alan Scott adjusts to his new world. In the
short-lived series, the JSA fight the newest incarnation of the
Ultra-Humanite as well as Pol St. Germain and Kulak the Sorcerer. Scott
reconnects with his wife and children, stating in issue #1 that Molly
"is pretty much handling things at the company..." and that Jade and
Obsidian "... are fine off doing their own thing in Hollywood. Not too
interested in being super-heroes." The series ends with issue #10, not
with the team disbanding, but with the members gathering together at
their first formal meeting after returning home.

Alan follows Guy Gardner and a small group of heroes to investigate a
mysterious distress from Oa, only to be defeated by Hal Jordan, who now
calls himself Parallax, having been driven mad after the destruction of
his home, Coast City. After the confrontation, Alan discovers that an
artist, Kyle Rayner, inherits the remaining Green Lantern ring. After
meeting the young hero, he informs him of the situations with Jordan and
the Green Lantern Corps. During the Zero Hour event, Alan witnesses
the villain Extant incapacitate and kill several of his JSA teammates.
After suffering defeat by the villain, Alan gives Kyle his original
ring, passing the name "Green Lantern" to him. Alan's ring was later
destroyed by Parallax.

For a time, the Starheart became part of Scott's body and he adopts the
name SENTINEL, becoming a founding member of a new JSA. Thanks to
the rejuvenative properties of the Starheart, Scott's physical body is
again temporarily revitalized so that he resembles a man in his 30s or
early 40s. This drives his wife Molly, who has not been affected, to
sell her soul to the demon Neron in exchange for youth. Alan enters the
demonic realm, with help from entities such as the Phantom Stranger and
Zatanna, and, with Kyle Rayner's aid, manages to win Molly's soul back,
reuniting Molly's essence with her souless being.

He has since been physically altered again so that he more closely
resembles his true chronological age. He returns to using the name
"Green Lantern" during the JSA's battle with Mordru. He continues to
fight crime in his original costumed identity, rebuilding a ring and
serving as an elder statesman to the Justice Society of America and to
the superhero community in general.

In Green Lantern: Rebirth, Alan and his daughter Jade, assist the
surviving members of the Green Lantern Corps, Hal Jordan, who had been
possessed by the ancient fear entity Parallax, John Stewart, Guy
Gardner, Kyle Rayner, and Kilowog, in defeating the Parallax-possessed
Ganthet. Alan is increasingly weakened due to Parallax's failed attempts
to control him as it did with Jordan, Stewart, Gardner, and Kilowog, so
it decides to kill him instead. However, Jordan, with the aid of The
Spectre, breaks free from Parallax' influence, and saves Alan from the
fear entity.

[The death of Jade. Art by Ivan Reis.] During the Rann-Thanagar War,
Kyle Rayner's power ring revealed that Scott is an honorary member of
the Green Lantern Corps.

Infinite Crisis and 52

During the Infinite Crisis, Scott and his daughter Jade, along with
many others, travel with Donna Troy to the center of the universe to
save it from Alexander Luthor, Jr.. Though they manage to succeed in
saving the universe, Jade dies on this mission. A year later, Scott is
still active and relatively youthful compared to his true age, but now
wears an eyepatch having lost his eye in a Zeta beam transporter
accident while returning from space. Though Scott loses his daughter, he
tells Kyle Rayner that he still has family both through relations and
close friendships, among which he counts Kyle. [Alan Scott wearing the
armor of his Earth-22 counterpart.]

Week 4 of the 52 maxi-series reveals that Scott lost his left eye
during a period when he and several other superheroes were declared
missing approximately 11 months prior to the events of Checkmate #1.
The Zeta Beam that Adam Strange had hoped to use for teleporting the
heroes away from the time-space ripple caused by Alexander Luthor, Jr.'s
actions was splintered by the ripple itself, mutilating the heroes in
various ways.

In Week 5, Alan goes to the wife and daughter of Animal Man to tell them
that Animal Man is missing in space. This gives Ellen Baker more hope
that her husband is alive.

In Week 29, Alan, Wilat, and Jay Garrick (Flash) are the only members
of the JSA present on Thanksgiving. They talk about the other members of
the JSA and about the new Infinity Inc., which is a new version of a
team of which Alan's daughter, Jade, was a member.

After being put into a comatose state during an attack by the Gentleman
Ghost, Alan envisions Jade, who tells him goodbye and grants him another
portion of her green energy. His missing eye is replaced by a green
glowing orb that, due to its mystical origins and connection to Jade,
allows him to track astral and mystical energy forms such as ghosts.

One Year Later

During the missing year, Scott has joined Checkmate at the rank of White
King, with his JSA teammate Mister Terrific as his Bishop. Scott soon
finds himself in a moral conflict with Black Queen Sasha Bordeaux over
the violent nature of Checkmate, particularly after Bordeaux and her
team slaughter dozens of Kobra operatives during a raid on a facility.
Bordeaux contends that the ends justify the means, while Scott adheres
to the principle that heroes should not kill unless absolutely
necessary. Bordeaux responds by suggesting that Scott resign. Concurrent
with this internal conflict, Scott and the White Queen (Amanda Waller)
try to keep the organization from being discontinued by political
forces.

After the rise of the being Gog, Alan Scott allies with the Justice
Society members that oppose Gog's simplistic view of the world. However,
after encountering a Justice Society from an alternate universe in which
his daughter Jade is still alive, he considers asking the seemingly all
powerful being to raise his daughter from the dead. Later, Sandman
learns that Gog is rooting himself into the Earth, and if he remains for
one more day, the Earth will no longer be able to survive without him.
The rest of the JSA arrive to kill Gog by separating his head from the
Earth, which is the only way to save the planet. The Society members
ally with Gog in an attempt to protect him until they see him attempt to
attack a Society member. All of Gog's followers, including Magog, turn
on him, causing Gog's blessing on them to be undone. The JSA are
able to topple Gog and send him to the Source Wall, but Alan is unable
to see his daughter.

In the Final Crisis storyline, Alan led a resistance against
Darkseid's forces as one of the superheroes responding to Article X. In
Final Crisis #5, he is shown defending Checkmate's Switzerland HQ from
the Justifiers. Though Donna Troy tries to place the Justifier helmet on
him, Hawkman saves him.

In the Blackest Night crossover, Alan and the rest of the JSA battle
the reanimated Kal-L and Black Lantern versions of dead Justice Society
members. After Jakeem Thunder is knocked out, Alan is one of the heroes
who adds his powers into a "Black Lantern Bomb" designed to mimic
Jakeem's Thunderbolt abilities, destroying all of the Black Lanterns in
New York. In the final battle of the event, his daughter Jade is
resurrected by the power of white light.

Brightest Day

In the beginning of the Brightest Day crossover event, Alan lies in
the arms of Obsidian, convulsing and writhing as a green light pours
from his body. His body possessed, Alan flies off with his JSA
teammates in hot pursuit, eventually led the team to Germany. The JSA
meet up with Batman's new Justice League and find that Jade, who had
been staying on Oa since her resurrection, has returned to Earth inside
a green meteor, later revealed to be the legendary Starheart that gave
Alan his powers. Sebastian Faust tells the two teams that the Starheart
has been gradually taking control of people on Earth for quite some
time. Now that it is on Earth, it is growing more powerful and driving
metahumans all over the world insane. Jade states that the Starheart
captured her in space and purposely brought her to Earth to find Alan
and that it is her fault that her father is now in danger. Just then,
Alan awakens and his costume transforms into a suit of armor identical
to the one he wears in Kingdom Come, and he then tells the assembled
heroes that he intends on destroying the world.

Starman is sent into space to search for Alan, and finds that Alan has
constructed a massive fortress on the surface of the moon. Before
Starman can warn the others, Alan appears in front of him and tears his
gem, the source of his abilities, from his chest, thus rendering him
powerless. The Starheart uses its influence to corrupt various
metahumans with magical or elemental abilities, which creates chaos
across the globe. Realizing that the heroes must defeat Alan in order to
end the chaos, Batman recruits Miss Martian to get a mental lock on
Starman, which, in turn, provides the Justice League with Alan's
location. Batman then assembles a small strikeforce consisting of
himself, Jade, Hourman, Donna Troy, Jesse Quick, and Mr. America, all of
whom have a low chance of being possessed by the Starheart. Mister
Miracle arrives and informs the team that Alan has most likely installed
Fourth World defenses in his base and offers to use his knowledge of
such technology to guide them through the fortress. When they
finally find him, Jade uses her powers to restore Alan to normal.
With his sanity restored, Alan chooses to allow the Emerald City he
created on the moon to stay, and the city becomes populated by various
magical creatures from throughout the U.

After the events of the Brightest Day, Alan and the rest of the JSA
travel to the city of Monument Point, which has been attacked by a
superpowered terrorist named Scythe. Just before being defeated, Scythe
snaps Alan's neck. In the subsequent story, it is revealed that
Scythe is the product of Nazi genetic engineering, and that Alan and Jay
had been tasked by the president with killing the experiment back when
he was in infancy during World War 2. The two heroes could not agree on
a course of action, and, as a result, Scythe was allowed to live.
Doctor Mid-Nite discovers that the injuries Alan sustained have rendered
him paralyzed, and that any attempt to heal himself could break his
constant concentration, which could result in the Starheart once again
regaining control of his body.

Jade visits her bed-ridden father in the Emerald City, and offers to use
her abilities to help him walk again. Alan declines his daughter's
offer, reasoning that if the Starheart were to once again take over his
body, it could result in the deaths of everyone in the city. Eclipso
attacks the city, which results in Jesse Quick having to get Alan to
safety.

Later, the JSA try to take down the villain D'arken who has broken free
from imprisonment beneath Monument Point and absorbed the powers of JSA
members, but D'arken is too powerful. Due to this only non-superpowered
and magical members fight D'arken. The JSA tells Alan that unleashing
the Starheart is the only way to destroy D'arken. However, after
releasing the Starheart energies, Alan's body begins to incinerate.
Afterwards, the JSA attend a funeral for Alan, whom they believe to be
dead.


Powers and abilities

Alan Scott wields a magical ring that can produce a variety of effects.
The extent of the ring's ability has never been rigorously defined, but
three consistent traits are that it allows him to fly, that its effects
are accompanied by a green light, and that it cannot directly affect
anything made of wood.

In Scott's first appearance, his body would glow green or be bathed in a
green light whenever he used his power, such as passing through a wall
or flying. During his earliest appearances, he would project a beam of
green light from his ring that could do variety of things such as move
objects, melt metal, shrink objects, or put out fires. He rarely used it
as an actual weapon and preferred to fight with his fists like any other
pulp adventure hero would do. The ring made him invulnerable to any
weapon not made of wood.

In later appearances, he started conjuring solid objects. These objects
could be of any shape and size such as: a sword to cut a rope, chains to
bind a prisoner, a parachute to slow his fall, and a disembodied fist to
beat his foe. But they were always pure green in color and would vanish
as soon as he stopped concentrating on them. Alan controlled these
objects telekinetically. These conjured objects, later referred to as
"constructs", would become the signature power of Green Lanterns in
later decades.

At the start of many stories, Alan charged his ring by touching it to a
green lantern, which would give him 24 hours of power (regardless of how
heavily he used it).

Alan's ring cannot affect anything made of wood or plant matter. He can
conjure a green shield to block bullets, but a wooden club will pass
right through it effortlessly. Solomon Grundy, a zombie whose body is
partially made from swamp matter, is highly resistant to Alan's powers.

In the mid-1980s,  merged Alan Scott and Hal Jordan into a shared
setting and eliminated parallel universes from the narrative. Because
these two characters were unrelated, the writers altered Alan's powers
to differentiate him from Hal. Alan's constructs were now wreathed in
green flame, highlighting their magical (and not technological) nature.
He physically merged with his lantern, meaning he no longer needed to
recharge as Hal needed to. In 1995, he lost his magical ring but learned
to manifest his power through his glowing hands instead (this change was
reversed in JSA #50).

In the beginning, Alan's power was vaguely connected to the mystical
power of the living world; "green, as are the plants, the growing
things!".


Other versions

The New 52

Following 's September 2011 reboot of its fictional universe, Alan was
reintroduced in issue 1 of Earth 2 as the young dynamic head of GBC
productions on Earth 2 (a parallel world within the 
Multiverse). On June 1, 2012,  announced that Scott would be
reimagined as a gay man. In issue 3, Scott is revealed to have a
boyfriend named Sam, to whom he intends to propose while on vacation in
China. Before he can do so, however, the train on which the couple is
travelling is suddenly wrecked. A mysterious green flame protects Scott
and heals him; a disembodied voice informs him that the crash was caused
by a force that threatens the whole world, and that Sam did not survive.
The grief-stricken Scott is then told that he will be given the power to
avenge his love and protect the world. The flame creates a costume for
him, and molds Sam's engagement ring into a power ring with which Scott
can harness his power. Reborn as the Green Lantern, Scott proceeds to
help the other survivors and swears vengeance for Sam. This version
of Green Lantern is associated with The Green, a mystical realm/entity
that connects all botanical life on Earth.

Kingdom Come

[Green Lantern (Alan Scott), protector of the city of New Oa in Kingdom
Come.] In the Kingdom Come limited series by Mark Waid and Alex Ross,
Alan is the only Green Lantern on Earth. He lives in an orbital space
station called New Oa from which he protects Earth from alien attacks,
and has ceased to meddle in human affairs. When Superman comes out of
retirement, he rejoins the Justice League to help suppress the rogue
superhumans that are causing chaos throughout the world. After the
crisis is resolved, he joins the United Nations as the ambassador of the
sovereign nation of New Oa.

Alan Scott's costume in this series was styled after the full plate
armor of medieval knights. In the regular books, he has sported this
armor on several occasions when he uses high amounts of power.

JSA: The Unholy Three

Another version of Alan Scott was seen briefly in JSA: The Unholy
Three as a post-WW2 agent called the LANTERN whose use of his power
ring was invaluable to the intelligence community for its ability to
discern truth from lies. The ring and Alan's hand were destroyed by a
Superman gone rogue.

Green Lantern: Evil's Might

In the Elseworlds tale, Green Lantern: Evil's Might, Alan Scott is
depicted as the young leader of a gang called the Bowery Greens. He
steals a magical green gem similar to Kyle Rayner's ring and later
steals Kyle's lantern. In a final showdown, he fatally wounds Kyle, but
is absorbed into Kyle's ring.

The Golden Age

In the Elseworlds series "The Golden Age", Alan Scott finds himself
under investigation from the House Un-American Activities Committee
because of his refusal to turn over employees suspected of communist
activities. In the final battle with Dynaman, Johnny Quick refers to him
as "the big guy", implying that he may have been the most powerful hero
of the era (although this is likely also a reference to Alan's large
physical stature).

Superman & Batman: Generations 2

In Superman & Batman: Generations 2, an alternate version of Alan
Scott is featured. This Alan Scott's ring's origin is explained as
having originally been a Green Lantern ring that was lost on Earth long
ago. In this storyline, the first time Alan used his ring, he was
knocked out from behind by a man with a wooden club. This caused Alan to
believe the ring was weak against wood, thereby causing a mental block
that prevented him from truly exerting his power against wooden objects
or attacks. (This was confirmed by the Guardians, who explained that
this was the reason behind the weakness to yellow of the Green Lantern
Corps' rings. They simply told all new Green Lanterns that their rings
were powerless against yellow to establish the same mental block.)

52

In the final issue of 52, a new Multiverse is revealed, originally
consisting of 52 identical realities. Among the parallel realities shown
is one designated "Earth-2". As a result of Mister Mind "eating" aspects
of this reality, it takes on visual aspects similar to the pre-Crisis
Earth-Two, including the Green Lantern among other Justice Society of
America characters. The names of the characters and the team are not
mentioned in the panel in which they appear, but the Green Lantern is
visually similar to Alan Scott.

Based on comments by Grant Morrison, this alternate universe is not the
pre-Crisis Earth-Two.

It has been revealed in Justice Society (vol. 3) #20 that the
post-Crisis Earth-2 Alan Scott is dead as stated by his daughter Jade
who encountered the New Earth Scott and was shocked to see the New Earth
counterpart to her father still alive.

Superman: Red Son

Scott is also shown as a member of the Green Lantern Marine Corps in
Superman: Red Son.


In other media

Television

-   Alan Scott appears in the Smallville episode "Absolute Justice"
    portrayed by Doug Pinton. He is a super hero in the 1970s and a CEO
    of an unnamed broaasting company, who was arrested for fraud by
    the government in a mission to take down the JSA. He like the others
    tried to take the blame for all crimes though he and the rest were
    never convicted. As the law was now aware of his superhero identity,
    Scott retired from heroics. In present day, Clark Kent and Chloe
    Sullivan find old black-and-white footage of Alan (his power ring is
    visible on his left hand), along with his criminal record. Very
    little is said about him but was confirmed he was still alive by
    Stargirl and hinted he had children. His power ring and lantern
    battery are shown, in a display case at the JSA Brownstone as well
    as his portrait in the JSA painting. In the television series' comic
    book continuation, it is revealed that Alan was a member of the
    Green Lantern Corps.
-   Alan Scott appears in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold episode
    "Crisis: 22,300 Miles Above Earth!" voiced by Corey Burton.
-   Alan Scott makes a brief non-speaking cameo in the Young Justice
    episode "Humanity", where he is shown in archival footage of
    the JSA.
-   While he never made an appearance, Alan Scott was alluded to in the
    Green Lantern: The Animated Series episode "Steam Lantern". In the
    episode, Hal Jordan travels to another dimension where a hero named
    GIL BROOME (the eponymous Steam Lantern) was inspired by a Green
    Lantern who wore red and had a cape.

Films

Green Lantern has a cameo in the opening credits of  Universe animated
film Justice League: The New Frontier where he is seen being forced
out of heroics by the government.

Video games

-   Alan Scott appears in  Universe Online, voiced by Jason Phelps.
-   A statue of Alan Scott is seen in Batman: The Brave and the Bold -
    The Videogame.

Novel

Sleepers is a trilogy created by Mike Baron and written by Christopher
J. Priest. Each volume focuses on a different Green Lantern including
Alan Scott.

Action figures

In 2010, Green Lantern was released in Wave 14 of Mattel's  Universe
Classics toyline.


Collected Editions

-   Golden Age Green Lantern Archives Vol. 1 (Green Lantern Vol. 1 #1
    and All-American Comics #16-30)
-   Golden Age Green Lantern Archives Vol. 2 (Green Lantern Vol. 1
    #2-3 and All-American Comics #31-38)
-   JSA Presents: Green Lantern (Green Lantern: Brightest Day,
    Blackest Night (one-shot); JSA: Classified #25, #32-33)
-   Crisis on Multiple Earths: The Team-Ups Vol. 1 (Green Lantern Vol.
    2 #40)
-   Crisis on Multiple Earths: The Team-Ups Vol. 2 (Green Lantern Vol.
    2 #45, 52)

