ALBERT ROTHSTEIN (known by the aliases NUKLON and ATOM SMASHER --
sometimes spelled "ATOM-SMASHER") is a comic book superhero in the 
Comics universe. Atom Smasher is known for his power of growth and super
strength. Created by Roy Thomas and Jerry Ordway, he first appeared
in All-Star Squadron #25 (September 1983). Thomas chose his name as
a tribute to his friend and fellow comic book fan Allan Rothstein.


Fictional character biography

Origin

The godson of Al Pratt, the Golden Age Atom, Albert Rothstein acquired
his metahuman powers of super strength and control over his molecular
structure (allowing him to alter the size and density of his body) from
his grandfather, a reluctant supervillain known as Cyclotron, allowing
him to fight crime first as Nuklon, and then, later, as Atom Smasher. As
Nuklon, Albert was a charter member of Infinity, Inc. and subsequently
served in the Justice League. He was considered a dependable, but rather
insecure and indecisive superhero while on Infinity, Inc. During this
time he had a mohawk haircut. While in the JLA, he forged a strong
friendship with fellow former Infinity Inc. teammate Obsidian.

The Justice Society

[Atom Smasher about to crush Kobra.] Albert finally gets his dream, and
is invited to join the reunited JSA, under his new name and identity,
Atom Smasher (he mocks his old mohawk and costume in the meantime). For
years, Atom Smasher cherishes his role in upholding Pratt's legacy and
constantly seeks to prove himself worthy to his Golden Age idols –
especially when many of them became his teammates in the JSA. He looks
up to the elder JSA members, but is himself looked up to by young rookie
member Stargirl. When Albert's mother is murdered in a plane crash
engineered by the terrorist Kobra, he becomes consumed by vengeance,
nearly crushing Kobra in his hands before he is talked down by his
teammate Jack Knight, who convinces him that he should not taint the
memory of his mother by associating it with Kobra's murder. Not long
after the fatal crash, Albert – with the aid of Metron of the New Gods –
goes back in time and replaces his mother with the weakened villain
Extant. This ends up saving her life but makes Albert a murderer, even
if there was no other way to contain Extant and stop him from causing
further harm.

Black Adam

When Captain 's longtime adversary Black Adam reforms and joins
the JSA, he and Rothstein develop a rivalry at first (with Al refusing
to believe Adam has reformed), but soon this turns to kinship (after
Adam justifies Al's murderous actions towards Extant); indeed, Black
Adam comments that he thinks of Atom Smasher as the brother he never
had. Encouraged by Adam, Atom Smasher grows frustrated with the JSA's
moral boundaries, especially when Kobra blackmails authorities into
granting his release. Albert and Adam promptly quit the JSA after
Kobra's escape.

Shortly thereafter, the unlikely duo settle each other's personal
scores. Adam kills Kobra, while Rothstein kills the dictatorial
president of Khandaq, Adam's home country. Atom Smasher helps lead a
team of rogue metahumans (including former Infinity Inc. teammates
Brainwave and Northwind) in an invasion of Khandaq and overthrow its
oppressive regime. Atom Smasher initially fights against his JSA
teammates in Khandaq before deciding instead to help forge an uneasy
truce—Black Adam and his compatriots can remain in power so long as they
never leave the country.

Atom Smasher remains in the Middle Eastern nation for a time, although
he eventually begins to question Adam's motives. Rothstein perishes in
JSA #75 while fighting against the Spectre, but is revived by Black
Adam's lightning, and carried back to JSA headquarters.

He is later put on trial for his actions in Khandaq and pleads guilty to
all charges (teammate Stargirl promises to "be there for him" when he
gets out). Whilst in jail, he is approached by the founder of the
Suicide Squad, Amanda Waller. In 52, he is seen assembling a new
Suicide Squad under Waller's orders, instructed to fight Black Adam,
and, unbeknownst to Atom Smasher himself, push his family to overreact.
They succeed, and Osiris is disgraced and exposed for having killed a
Squad member, as Amanda Waller was filming the events, leading to the
downfall of the whole Black  Family, and a murderous rampage of
Black Adam, dubbed World War III.

He then sides with the Justice Society, trying to apprehend Black Adam,
but refuses to condemn him in any way, not even believing him guilty of
the genocide in Bialya ("Tell me it wasn't you..."). When Adam is robbed
of his powers by Captain , and is about to plunge to his death, it
is Atom Smasher who saves him, though no character ever sees this, and
Al keeps it hidden.

In the Black Adam: The Dark Age series, Albert is shown searching for
his former friend, who is intent upon resurrecting his dead wife Isis.
In Black Adam #5, Albert brings Adam a bone from Isis' remains
(unbeknownst to the JSA, with whom he was searching for Adam), and
unsuccessfully tries to persuade his friend to go into hiding.

Modern-day JSA issues

In the Justice Society of America: The Kingdom special, Stargirl
recruits Atom Smasher to knock some sense into Damage, who had become an
evangelist of sorts for the Third World god Gog after the cosmic being
(temporarily) healed Damage's scarred face. He views Pratt's son as a
brother figure, since he was brought up by Pratt in the first place.

Atom Smasher finally returns to the JSA during the "Black Adam and Isis"
arc printed in Justice Society of America #23–25. Asking the team for
a second chance at honoring the memory of Al Pratt, Atom Smasher joins
the Justice Society in battling Black Adam and Isis, who have robbed
Captain  of his powers and his throne at the Rock of Eternity. At
the conclusion of the story, despite Wilat's distrust, Atom Smasher is
readmitted into the JSA as a full member, along with all the other
members of the team who had acted poorly in recent issues. He vanishes
for several issues, but he reappears in the JSA: All-Stars book as a
victim of kidnapping.


Relationships with women

Albert has had complicated relationships with women during his tenure on
various super-hero teams. While on Infinity, Inc., he was shown being
clearly in love with teammate Fury, despite her being engaged to his
friend Silver Scarab. Many other characters make note of this, though
none of them begrudge Al, and actually feel sorry for him because he
will inevitably have his heart broken. Looking up to her even as
children, he eventually proposes when Hector is killed and she is left
pregnant, so she will not be alone. She turns him down, saying that she
prefers them being friends. He also had a brief flirtation with the
second Wilat Yolanda Montez, but things never developed between them.
During his time with the League, he dated Fire, but he discontinued
the relationship because she was not Jewish — even though this did not
stop his earlier or later crushes.

His relationship with Stargirl is even more complex. While Stargirl has
shown some romantic feelings for Atom Smasher in the past, there was
never any reciprocation on his part. Later issues clearly establish
Stargirl's true feelings, as various friends (such as "Billy Batson
(Captain )" or her friend Mary) accuse her of liking Al, and she
promises to wait for him upon his return from prison. When Al is
temporarily killed by The Spectre, she reveals the depths of her
feelings for him, weeping over his dead body. Albert finally
acknowledges his own feelings when he rejoins the JSA to fight Black
Adam, admitting that Billy Batson deserves her far more than Al himself
does, in a regretful tone. Al's teammates realize the couple's mutual
attraction once they start openly fawning over each other in public, and
while Power Girl is supportive ("Go rescue your fair maiden"), the elder
members force Al to turn Courtney down due to the age difference. This
leaves Al melancholy, and Courtney runs off crying. Later issues of
JSA: All-Stars reveal the two still love each other, but after Johnny
Sorrow mimics Al to force a kiss from the young girl, they both
recognize the need for "space".


Powers and abilities

Already super strong at his normal size — 7 ft 6 in, or 2.3 m — (though
recently he has been depicted as being of a more normal height when not
using his powers), Atom Smasher's strength and density increase
proportionately to whatever size he chooses (it was explained in JSA
#75 that his muscles and bones actually break and reform as they grow in
order to achieve these great heights).

In the  Encyclopedia, it is stated that he could grow up to 60 feet
without problems. Whether there is a limit to the heights he can grow to
is unknown. At 60 feet, he was strong enough to knock out Power Girl
with one stomp, and easily decimated most of the JSA during "Black
Reign", but he is vulnerable to super-strong punches from the likes of
Black Adam, being knocked unconscious with one blow several times.
During his time as Nuklon, Albert was able to phase through walls; he
has not been shown using this power in recent years, but it is unclear
whether it has been retconned away. Rothstein is also a skilled pilot
and mechanic. In the first few years of JSA, he could be seen piloting
the JSA's jet, the Steel Eagle, as well as the Star Rocket Racer in
JSA: Our Worlds at War, and earlier being Infinity, Inc.'s primary
pilot.


Other versions

Kingdom Come

Al was part of Superman's Justice League in Mark Waid and Alex Ross'
Kingdom Come under the code-name "Atom Smasher". This was the debut of
his new name, which was later used in mainstream  continuity.


In other media

Television

[Atom Smasher in Justice League Unlimited in the episode "Task Force
X".]

-   Atom Smasher appears in the  animated universe series Justice
    League Unlimited, voiced by an uncredited Kevin Conroy. He appears
    as a member of the expanded Justice League. In "Dark Heart," Atom
    Smasher helps the Justice League fight the aliens spawned from the
    Dark Heart. In "Task Force X," Atom Smasher fights the Annihilator
    while Shining Knight and Vigilante fight Task Force X. Atom Smasher
    is quickly defeated. As Martian Manhunter battles the team,
    Plastique forces him to stop when she threatens to place a bomb in
    Atom Smasher's mouth; however Captain Atom arrives and stops her. In
    "Panic In The Sky", Atom Smasher is shown fighting a Long Shadow
    clone and defeating it.

-   On the television series The Flash, in the episode "Power Outage",
    Al Rothstein is mentioned as one of the people who seemingly died as
    a result of the particle accelerator accident that gave The Flash
    his powers.
    -   For the second season Adam Copeland was cast as Atom Smasher,
        debuting in the first episode "The Man Who Saved Central City".
        This Albert Rothstein is implied to be a metahuman from Earth-2.
        For some reason he kills his counterpart in this universe, who,
        contradictory to "Power Outage," didn't die in the accident and
        was in fact in Hawaii at the time. This version is portrayed as
        a villain, who comes to Central City to kill the Flash at Zoom's
        request. Gaining his powers by absorbing radiation in his
        vicinity, he is defeated when the Flash lures him into a nuclear
        reactor and exposes him to a lethal dose, Rothstein being unable
        to absorb all that energy. A dying Rothstein tells Flash that
        the person promised to take him home if he successfully defeated
        the Flash went by the name Zoom.

Video games

Atom Smasher makes a cameo appearance in Injustice: Gods Among Us. He
is seen at the Hall of Justice stage fighting Giganta in the background.
When a hero or villain transitions to the next part of the stage, the
character is flung by a robot into Giganta's hand and she punches Atom
Smasher with the character before the character is flung into the Hall
of Justice (Great Hall).

Toys

-   Atom Smasher was rendered as an action figure for Mattel's popular
    Justice League Unlimited toyline in the summer of 2005.
-   In February 2009, Atom Smasher was the Collect-and-Connect figure of
    the seventh wave of the  Universe Classics line.

