ALEXANDER LUTHOR JR. is a fictional character owned by .
Created by Marv Wolfman and George Pérez, Luthor Jr. has a prominent
role in the  Universe storylines Crisis on Infinite Earths and
Infinite Crisis. He drastically transforms from a hero into a villain.


Fictional character biography

Crisis on Infinite Earths

Alexander Luthor, Jr. is born on Earth-Three, the son of that world's
Lex Luthor (known as Alexander Luthor) and Lois Lane-Luthor. Luthor Sr.
is Earth-Three's only hero, fighting the Crime Syndicate (an evil
version of the Justice League of America). In the 1985 
12-issue limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths, a being known as
the Anti-Monitor destroys innumerable universes (including Earth-Three)
with an anti-matter wave. To save their son, the Luthors place him in an
experimental device which carries the infant to the relative safety of
Earth-One.

[Survivors of the Crisis, about to enter the paradise dimension;
promotional art for Adventures of Superman #649 (April 2006) cover by
Ivan Reis|alt=Drawing of futuristic people, headed towards a light]
Alexander materializes on the abandoned satellite which was formerly
headquarters of the Justice League. Harbinger takes him in, at the
request of the Monitor. His passage through the anti-matter storm
grants him power over both matter and anti-matter, dramatically
accelerating his aging process. By the end of Crisis Luthor is a young
adult, despite the passage of only a few weeks. After the Monitor's
death, Alexander helps lead the heroes and villains of the  Universe
against the Anti-Monitor.

After defeating the Anti-Monitor (with the help of Kal-L, the Earth-Two
Superman and the Earth-Prime Superboy), Alexander reveals that he has
saved Kal-L's wife, the Earth-Two Lois Lane, from being erased from
existence when the multiverse was destroyed. The foursome, no longer
having a place in the Post-Crisis universe, retreat to a "paradise
dimension" (which Alexander accesses with the last of his dimensional
powers).

Escape from "Heaven"

Infinite Crisis Secret Files reveals how the four survivors spent the
years since the Crisis. The survivors have power over the dimension, and
it reacts to their thoughts and emotions. Alexander (who has rapidly
aged to his mid-30s) becomes colder and detached from the well-being of
the universe's living beings. Superboy-Prime is frustrated, and
Alexander uses this opportunity to convince him to help fix reality.
Playing on his anger, Alexander only shows him negative aspects of the
new reality to convince him that it is inferior; for example,
Superboy-Prime appears to be unaware that Hal Jordan and Parallax are
separate entities.

Furiously trying to escape, Superboy-Prime unsuccessfully pounds on the
barrier wall of the paradise dimension. This assault on the universe
causes "ripples" which alter reality, explaining in-story the real-life
changes and retcons in  continuity over the past 20 years.

Superboy-Prime's efforts frustrate him; he is not as powerful in the
post-Crisis heaven, because he has no yellow sun to power him.
Eventually Alexander reveals that his own powers are returning, and the
two combine forces to break through the barrier wall. Together, they set
into motion the events that culminate in Infinite Crisis:

-   Superboy-Prime pushes the planet Rann into Thanagar's orbit,
    destroying Thanagar's ecosystem, sparking the Rann-Thanagar War and
    shifting the center of the universe away from Oa.
-   Alexander poses as Lex Luthor and starts the new Society of
    Super-Villains.
-   Alexander recruits the Psycho-Pirate to place Eclipso's Black
    Diamond in Jean Loring's Arkham Asylum cell. Loring as Eclipso
    then seduces the Spectre into destroying all magic, leading to the
    death of the wizard Shazam and the Rock of Eternity's destruction,
    releasing many demons and causing terrible impacts on magic.
-   Superboy-Prime destroys the Justice League Watchtower and abducts
    Martian Manhunter.
-   Alex takes control of Brother Eye from Batman, which gives him
    control over the OMACs and Checkmate's files on Earth's
    meta-humans.

Infinite Crisis

Countdown

Alexander watches the events on the post-Crisis Earth for several years
with his companions, and eventually convinces a pessimistic Kal-L to
break the walls of their paradise to intervene on post-Crisis Earth.
Alexander tells Kal-L and his cousin Power Girl that they can help him
bring aspects of Earth-Two into predominance over the merged universes
(since Earth-One had become predominant Post-Crisis), which will help
Earth-Two's Lois Lane recover from her current illness.

"I'm you. Only better."

[Alexander Luthor is confronted by Lex Luthor. Panels from Infinite
Crisis #3 (February 2006); art by Phil Jimenez.|alt=Multiple comic
panels of Alexander Luthor confronting his father] Lex Luthor does
everything in his power to find his impersonator. Assuming the identity
Mockingbird, he organizes the Secret Six. Lex eavesdrops on Alexander's
transmissions for months, and finally confronts him in the Arctic. When
Lex asks who he is, Alexander replies "I'm you. Only better." Alexander
also reveals that his presence on Earth is what has been causing Lex'
recent erratic behavior and interference to his thought processes. Lex
is almost killed by Alexander and Superboy-Prime, but escapes by
teleporting away.

Not only is Alexander masquerading as Lex Luthor, he is also using the
Society to construct a massive dimensional "tuning fork" (like those in
the original Crisis). The structure incorporates heroes and villains
from the Earths who combined to form the post-Crisis Earth, and the
remains of the Anti-Monitor. (This scheme was not new in ;
in Justice League of America #197, Ultra-Humanite banished
super-heroes from Earth-1 and Earth-2 to Limbo and the result—already
calculated by the villain—was Earth-2's reality, transformed into a
world without heroes.)

[The Anti-Monitor's corpse is turned into a tower. From a panel in
Infinite Crisis #3 (February 2006); art by Phil Jimenez.|alt=Large
comic drawing of human-looking tower] The device requires a vast power
source to operate, which Alexander generates by manipulating the Spectre
into destroying magic (as seen in Day of Vengeance). With sorcerers
dead (and their resulting control over magic extinguished), the result
is a raw form of magic that the device can tap into; this is personified
by the power commanded by the wizard Shazam after his death. He needs
lightning provided by one of Shazam's champions, Black Adam, who says
the word due to influence from the Psycho-Pirate. Alexander programs the
tower by granting sentience to the Brother Eye satellite, allowing the
system to evolve into a brain capable of directing the tower's energies
and mapping the new multiverse to help him find the perfect Earth he
seeks.

With the device Alexander can divide the universe, re-creating the
multiverse. He seems successful in recreating Earth-Two (or a close
facsimile); however, he notes that objective is not his ultimate one
(which is to gather elements from every Earth to create one single,
perfect Earth). With the parallel Earths restored Alexander combines
various Earths, randomly bringing them together to observe the result
(despite the billions of lives he destroys) and destroying the result if
unsuitable. At the center of the universe, Donna Troy and her team see
gigantic representations of Alexander's hands creating a rip in
space.

As Alexander attempts to combine Earth-Two and Earth-Three (an act which
would have killed Superman and Wonder Woman), Firestorm converts all the
energy the heroes are firing at the rip into raw positive matter (which
destroys Alexander's right index finger). Immediately after, Nightwing,
Wonder Girl and Superboy arrive at the tower and free the captives.
Superboy-Prime enters the fray; his fight with Conner destroys the
tower, and the multiple Earths collapse into a single "New Earth".

His plan foiled, Alexander decides that if he cannot create a perfect
Earth, he will take this Earth by force and shape it as best he can. To
that end, the Society meets in Metropolis to decimate the remaining
heroes (with Doomsday as their champion).

Death

[Alexander Luthor, Jr. is killed by the Joker as Lex Luthor watches on,
in panels from Infinite Crisis #7 (June 2006); art by Phil Jimenez and
Jerry Ordway.|alt=Multiple panels of Alexander Luthor, Jr.'s death]
After losing a battle (during which he seriously injures Nightwing with
a blast which apparently drains his power), Alexander is held at
gunpoint by Batman for severely injuring Nightwing and causing
Superboy's death. Wonder Woman stops him, telling Batman that Alex is
not worth it; Alex flees, proclaiming that this does not mean that
Wonder Woman is "better".

Lex Luthor and the Joker find him hiding in an alley in Gotham City.
Alex broods over the failure of his plans (while reflecting that he is
already coming up with another plan to achieve his goal), when he is
distracted by a noise from further down the alley. The Joker mutilates
Alex's face with his acid-flower (and lethal) joy-buzzer and Lex taunts
his enemy for his mistakes, including underestimating him and excluding
the Joker from the Society (the Joker was the only major villain not
offered membership in the Society, due to his highly unpredictable
nature). The Joker then shoots Alexander point-blank in the head with a
shotgun, killing him, while Lex mockingly asks "Now who's stupid?".

In 52 Week Three, the GCPD find a body in an alley resembling Lex
Luthor. John Henry Irons examines the body at S.T.A.R. Labs and notices
that contact lenses were inserted post-mortem to make the blue eyes
appear green (like Lex's). Lex Luthor barges in with a throng of
reporters, claiming that the body is that of an impostor from another
Earth—the man truly responsible for his crimes.

Although Alexander's body had a missing finger and a different genetic
makeup from Lex's, 52 editor Stephen Wacker has confirmed that the
body found in Gotham is indeed Alex, and Luthor altered it before police
had discovered it.

The Death of The New Gods mini-series (2008) reveals that Alexander
was subtly manipulated by the Source into recreating the Multiverse.

2010s

In the 2009–10 Blackest Night storyline, Alexander Luthor has been
identified as one of the deceased who is entombed below the Hall of
Justice, and his corpse is revived as a Black Lantern during the
"Blackest Night" event. Gathering a group of black rings, he sends
himself to Earth Prime. Once there he tracks down Superboy Prime (giving
him a copy of his old battle suit), and prepares to kill him. Alexander
also brings forth those whom Prime had killed during Infinite Crisis
and Final Crisis: Legion of 3 Worlds, using the rings to reanimate
them as Black Lanterns to aid him in defeating the insane Boy of
Steel. The Black Lanterns overwhelm Prime, who voluntarily puts on a
black ring. The ring reacts to Prime's mixed emotions (cycling through
the emotional spectrum), resulting in a burst of rainbow-colored energy
which destroys Alexander and his fellow Black Lanterns.

Alexander next appears in Justice League of America in 2011. In the
Hall of Justice, the Justice League is attacked by the Antimatter
Universe's Crime Syndicate of America. They join forces with Doctor
Impossible's team to steal Alexander Luthor's corpse, intending to
resurrect him in the Chamber of Resurrection. While the other Crime
Syndicate members keep the JLA busy, Owlman sneaks off to allow Doctor
Impossible access to the resurrection device. At the last moment, Doctor
Impossible apparently betrays the Syndicate and substitutes Alexander's
corpse for himself to resurrect Darkseid. The plot went awry when the
machine instead gave birth to a new villain, known as Omega Man.
Alexander is temporarily resurrected by the Tangent Green Lantern later
in the story, allowing him to atone for his past misdeeds by helping to
defeat the Omega Man and CSA.


Powers and abilities

Alexander's greatest talent is his genius-level intellect which he uses
to manipulate other characters, outwit his enemies and engineer the
Multiverse Tower. The circumstances of his escape from the doomed
Earth-Three give him power over matter and anti-matter, which he can use
offensively as bursts of energy or to form and control dimensional
portals. Overuse of his power seems to drain him; following his attempt
to restore the Multiverse (and a subsequent attack on Nightwing) he was
left apparently as vulnerable as a normal human, clearly terrified when
Batman appeared to be about to shoot him, and eventually being killed by
the Joker.


In other media

-   In the TV series Smallville, there were two characters that have
    the name "Alexander Luthor":
    -   In the season five episode "Lexmas", Lex Luthor has a near death
        dream where he and Lana Lang are happily married with their son
        'Alex' until Lana dies after giving birth to their daughter.
    -   In the final season, Lex' last clone uses the name to refer
        to himself. In the episodes "Lazarus" and "Isis", the
        '6-year-old' (Jakob Davies) was found in Cadmus Labs and
        unofficially adopted by Tess Mercer and then he started bonding
        with Tess like mother and son. However, the episode "Harvest"
        shows the '12-year-old' (Connor Stanhope) continue to bond with
        Tess but he was affected with Lex' memories and emotions to the
        point of changing into Lex' clothing and shaved bald to
        resemble him. In the episode "Beacon", the 'teenage' version
        (Lucas Grabeel) was discovered by Lionel Luthor but his and
        Lionel's relationship quickly soured so Tess and Clark Kent
        promised to help him. In the episode "Scion", it is discovered
        that he is a hybrid clone of Clark and Lex.

