ROBIN is a fictional character in publications from . Robin has
long been a fixture in the Batman comic books as Batman's sidekick.
Since 1940, several different youths have appeared as Robin. In each
incarnation, Robin's brightly colored visual appearance and youthful
energy have served as a contrast to Batman's dark look and manner.

This page is a list of the ALTERNATIVE VERSIONS OF ROBIN in comic books,
including , the multiverse, Elseworlds, and other sources.


In mainstream comics continuity

-   DICK GRAYSON is the original Robin. Though he later assumes the name
    NIGHTWING in the comics, Grayson is the most commonly portrayed
    version in other media. Grayson was temporarily BATMAN, but with
    Bruce Wayne's return, he went back to being Nightwing. Following the
    events of Forever Evil, he became an agent of SPYRAL under the alias
    Agent 37.
-   JASON TODD becomes Robin after Grayson, though his superheroic
    career is ended by his untimely death at the hands of The Joker.
    Todd is later resurrected and assumes the Joker's former identity,
    the RED HOOD. He briefly tried to take over the mantle of BATMAN,
    before Dick Grayson made him fall to his apparent death; he is now
    the Red Hood again traveling with Roy Harper a.k.a Arsenal, and
    Starfire the alien princess before disbanding the Outlaws group.
    Currently he is working with only Roy Harper in the "Red Hood and
    Arsenal" series.
-   TIM DRAKE assumes the Robin identity after Todd, but quits at the
    request of his father. After his replacement Stephanie Brown is
    presumed dead, Drake reclaims the mantle. Batman (Dick Grayson)
    passes the Robin mantle on to Damian Wayne after the events of
    Battle for the Cowl. Drake, reluctantly, becomes RED ROBIN.
-   BRUCE WAYNE briefly assumed the role when de-aged during the Sins
    of Youth storyline.
-   STEPHANIE BROWN, Tim Drake's girlfriend who was a superheroine known
    as the Spoiler, briefly takes on the Robin name in place of Drake,
    becoming the first female version of the superhero. She also serves
    as the third BATGIRL before The New 52 reboot restored the title to
    Barbara Gordon.
-   DAMIAN WAYNE, the son of Bruce Wayne and Talia al Ghul, assumed the
    Robin mantle after the events of Battle for the Cowl.

Pre-Crisis on Infinite Earths, a number of Robins lived on different
"Earths" in the original multiverse (which was destroyed during
Crisis).

In a Batman story from the 1950s, Bruce Wayne assumes the identity of
Robin. Richard Grayson of Earth-Two carried on his Robin mantle long
into adulthood. Post-52, an entirely new finite multiverse was
discovered and created, and as such, a number of Robins may exist now on
other alternative Earths. In one frame of the final issue of 52, a new
Earth-2 is depicted, along with a character that resembles the original,
adult Earth-2 Robin. Whether it is that character or not remains to be
seen, as this Earth-2 is not identical to the one that existed before
Crisis on Infinite Earths. In another case, Talon is an analogue of
Robin, from the new Earth-3 where his relationship with Owlman mirrors
that of Batman and Robin in the mainstream universes and maintained a
romantic relationship with Duela Dent. Batman #666 depicts a future in
which Batman's biological son Damian Wayne becomes Batman, having
previously served as Robin.


Alternative versions

Batman: Digital Justice

In the digitally rendered tale Batman: Digital Justice, James Gordon
the grandson of his namesake, Commissioner Gordon, takes on the mantle
of the Batman. A character named ROBERT CHANG, who is somewhat
reminiscent of the post-Crisis Jason Todd, takes on the mantle of Robin.

Dick Grayson (Earth Two)

[Robin of Earth-Two] THE ROBIN OF EARTH-TWO is a parallel version of the
fictional  superhero, who was introduced after 
created Earth-Two, a parallel world that was retroactively established
as the home of characters which had been published in the Golden Age of
comic books. This allowed creators to publish comic books featuring
Robin while being able to disregard Golden Age stories, solving an
incongruity, as Robin had been published as a single ongoing incarnation
since inception.

Robin's origin and history begins the same as the classic version except
the timeframe occurs when the Detective Comics #38 was originally
printed: 1940.

-   Richard Grayson's parents are killed by Anthony Zucco.
-   After a period of training, a young Dick Grayson becomes Robin. His
    first printed story is "Robin, the Boy Wonder."
-   Robin participates in the war-time only All Star Squadron. His
    distant cousin is Charles Grayson, the scientific assistant of
    Robotman.

This version of Dick Grayson ceased to exist after the multi arc 
Universe spanning event Crisis on Infinite Earths. He was killed by the
Anti-Monitor's Shadow Demons while trying to save civilians, along with
Earth-1's Kole and the daughter of Earth-Two's Batman, the Huntress
(Helena Wayne).

When the Multiverse was recreated in the  Universe event, Infinite
Crisis, a new Earth-Two was born, with a Dick Grayson that resembles the
original Earth-Two Grayson. It was established that this new Earth-Two
was not the same one as before the Crisis on the Infinite Earths,
although Grayson's attitude and his status as a crime-fighter with the
Justice Society certainly reflected what had gone before.

After the events of Flashpoint, Helena Wayne, daughter of Earth-2's
Batman and Catwoman served as Robin and became the only partner that
Batman had ever had. In this continuity, Bruce Wayne had never adopted
Dick Grayson as his ward, so he never became Robin on Earth-2. However,
he does appear later, married to Earth-2's Barbara Gordon, who never
became Batgirl on Earth-2.

Talon (Earth-3)

The second Talon is shown in Teen Titans #38 (2006), the former
sidekick of Owlman, created by Geoff Johns and Tony S. Daniel. He is a
former member of the Crime Society and a member of the Teen Titans
during the one-year gap after Infinite Crisis. According to an
interview with Tony Daniel at Newsarama, Talon is supposed to look like
his mentor Owlman. He briefly battled Black Adam with his fellow
Titans during World War III. It was revealed in The Search for Ray
Palmer: Crime Society that there have been several Talons. The first
one is shown dressed parallel to that of Grayson's classic Robin
costume, including brown pixie boots. On post-Crisis Earth-3, the Teen
Titans' Talon and Duela Dent, the daughter of the Jokester, had been
dating. When Duela revealed their relationship to her parents, her
father denounced her and the two fled. It is unknown how the two managed
to flee to New Earth, or what has happened to Talon beyond that.

Bruce Wayne Junior

In "The Second Batman and Robin Team" (Batman #131, April 1960), Bruce
Wayne's butler writes a story about the possible future of Batman and
Robin. In it, Bruce Wayne marries Kathy Kane, the Batwoman and they have
a son named Bruce Jr. When Wayne retires as Batman, Dick Grayson takes
over the role of the Caped Crusader. Bruce Jr., having secretly trained
on his own, volunteers to become the new Robin, despite some objections
from his mother. As Robin II, he fights alongside Batman II. Several
subsequent "imaginary stories" featuring Bruce Jr. followed; the last in
this series was "Bat-Girl--Batwoman II" in Batman #163 (May 1964).
Bruce Wayne Jr next appeared in World's Finest Comics #215 (January
1973) as one of the Super-Sons.

Grant Morrison used the Bruce Wayne Jr. character in JLA #9 (September
1997), in the story "Elseworlds." After the supervillain Key traps
the Justice Leaguers in dream worlds, Batman dreams of a future in which
he is married to Selina Kyle/Catwoman. They have a son named Bruce
Junior, who was raised from birth to be a superhero and serves as Robin
II alongside a Tim Drake Batman.

John Byrne created his own Bruce Jr. in the epilogue of the
Batman/Captain America crossover from 1996; this Robin is a red-head
and resembles a male Carrie Kelley. Captain America wakes up in modern
times after having been frozen in ice towards the end of World War II.
He reunites with Batman, a friend who had helped him when Joker and Red
Skull joined forces. The Captain is amazed to learn that in the time he
slept, Bruce Wayne has retired from being Batman, has passed the mantle
to Dick Grayson and that his son Bruce Junior is the new Robin.

Byrne revisited Bruce Jr. in his Superman & Batman: Generations
series. There, Bruce Junior is son of Bruce Senior and his wife, who is
never identified but is implied to be Julie Madison. "BJ" greatly
desires to be a hero and trains as a boy in the hopes of following in
his father's footsteps. However, his mother refuses to let "BJ" become
Robin until he turns eighteen, and Dick Grayson, then Batman, says that
she has final say. On Halloween night of 1964, when BJ is fifteen, he
and Superman's daughter Kara (Supergirl) sneak out to have an adventure
and, with the help of Wonder Woman's daughter Wonder Girl and The
Flash's nephew Kid Flash join forces to defeat some of Flash's Rogue's
Gallery, deciding to form their own team called the Justice League.
BJ and Kara become romantically involved as adults, but BJ puts the
relationship on hold when Joker kills Dick, forcing him to become the
third Batman. BJ and Kara eventually marry, but their wedding is halted
by Kara's bother Joel Kent. Joel, who had been manipulated his whole
life by Lex Luthor, hated his family and attacked the wedding, killing
Kara by punching through her chest. Joel dies shortly thereafter, and BJ
agrees to raise his powerless son in order to prevent another such
tragedy from happening (he also marries Joel's widow, Mei-Lai, sometime
in the intervening years). The child, named Clark Wayne, becomes BJ's
Robin and is offered the mantle of Batman when he becomes an adult.
However, Clark turns it down, having deduced that he wasn't BJ's
biological son, and believing that only a real Wayne should be Batman;
he instead adopts the heroic identity of Knightwing. In the 1990s, BJ
goes on a quest to locate his missing father, whom he eventually
discovers as having taken over Ra's al Ghul's criminal empire and turned
it into a force for good. Bruce asks BJ to assume control of the
organization so that he can become Batman once again. A story in
Generations II has Bruce's dying wife imply that BJ isn't his
biological son, but this is not explored until Generations III, where
BJ uses a Lazarus Pit and becomes Robin once more, ultimately learning
that he truly is Bruce's son and everything was a plan by his mother to
make up for never allowing father and son to work together as heroes. In
Generations III, BJ's life is greatly extended by the use of the
Lazarus Pit so he can help the human resistance battle the forces of
Darkseid, but when he is mortally wounded he decides to pass on, feeling
that he's kept Kara waiting far too long; the sight of their spirits
departing together is enough to make even Bruce Senior shed a tear.

For more information on a similar concept, see Damian Wayne, Bruce
Wayne's son by Talia al Ghul. In the wake of his father's apparent
death, his father's first Robin, Dick Grayson, has taken over as Batman
with Damien serving as the new Robin. Interestingly, the version of
Damian depicted in Batman: The Brave and the Bold has more in common
with Bruce Jr. than with his own portrayal in.

Deathwing

Introduced as an alternative Dick Grayson from a timeline when his Titan
teammate, Donna Troy, had a son who was driven mad, took on the mantle
of Lord Chaos and conquered his world. This version of Dick stayed in
his identity of Nightwing and helped train squadrons of superpowered
teenagers that became known as the Teen Titans. He was involved with the
much younger Titan, Mirage, during this time. This alternative-future
Nightwing came back in time and briefly joins the Team Titans when their
mission takes them to their past, our present. This version of
Nightwing, attacked and corrupted by a dark version of Raven shortly
after his arrival, changes his name to Deathwing, and serves as her
assistant. He becomes so twistedly evil, he at one point tracks down his
one time lover, Mirage, and rapes her. She becomes pregnant and has a
child named Julienne

During the Zero Hour event that retroactively erased this timeline,
Mirage, Terra and Deathwing survive. It is later established that they
are from the current time-line, and were shunted through time and given
false memories by the Time Trapper, who wished to use them as sleeper
agents against the time travel villain, Extant.

It wasn't revealed until one of the later runs of the Teen Titans that
this was not Dick Grayson, in fact his true identity was never
uncovered. After this storyline, this version of Nightwing has not been
seen since. Whether this version existed at all, after the events of
Infinite Crisis or would later to be revealed to be an alternative Dick,
Jason, or Tim, is unknown.

Red Robin

[Red Robin in Kingdom Come.] In Kingdom Come (a post-Infinite
Crisis Earth-22), a middle-aged Dick Grayson reclaims the Robin mantle
and becomes Red Robin, not at the side of his former mentor Batman, but
rather with Superman's League. His uniform is closer to Batman's in
design, rather than any previous Robin uniform. Age has not slowed him
down, as he possesses all of his stealth and fighting skills. In this
story he has a daughter with Starfire; Mar'i Grayson (Nightstar).
Starfire has apparently died by the time of the story, according to the
Elliot S! Maggin novelization, and Nightstar calls Bruce Wayne
"Grandpa", despite no blood relation. At the end of the comic and the
novel, Bruce and Dick had reconciled.

Red Robin reappeared in promotional material for the  Countdown
event; Eventually, it was revealed that this Red Robin was not Dick
Grayson, but rather Jason Todd who appeared under the cape and
cowl. The Red Robin costume was stated to be more symbolism,
than an actual costume choice, as Jason has been both the Red Hood and
Robin, being shown as Red Robin.

However, in Countdown to Final Crisis #17, Jason dons a Red Robin suit
from a display case in the "Bat Bunker" (Earth-51's equivalent to the
Bat Cave) as he and Earth-51 Batman join the fight raging on the Earth
above the bunker. Jason keeps his new suit and identity for the rest of
his tenure as a "Challenger of the Unknown", only to discard it on his
return to New Earth and revert to his "Red Hood" street clothing.

During the Scattered Pieces tie-in to Batman R.I.P._, a new Red
Robin makes his appearance, at first only as a glimmering image
following Robin (Tim Drake) and suspected to have stolen a briefcase of
money from the Penguin. Tim initially suspects Jason Todd of reprising
his Red Robin persona. However, Jason claims innocence, supposing that
someone may have stolen his suit when he discarded it earlier. The new
Red Robin breaks up a scuffle between Tim and Jason, and later is
revealed to be Ulysses Armstrong. Armstrong later changes costumes when
he reveals himself to be the new Anarky, and after being severely burned
in an explosion, an embattled Tim Drake dons the less-revealing Red
Robin costume to hide his wounds. He later returns to his standard
uniform.

In 2009, a new on-going series was introduced titled Red Robin. The
new Red Robin was revealed to be Tim Drake.

In 2014-5's Multiversity series, a Red Robin also appears as part of
Superman's darker incarnation of the Justice League on Earth-22, still
based on the alternate future continuity of Kingdom Come._

Earth-6: Stan Lee's Robin

 created a version of Robin for Stan Lee's Just Imagine..._ line of
comics, in which  characters were re-imagined by 
luminary Stan Lee. Robin is an orphan who has been forced by Reverend
Darkk, the series' main villain, into becoming a thief and a murderer.
He meets Batman when Darkk assigns Robin to kill him. Batman survives
the attack and in return shows Robin what kind of a man Darkk really is.
Robin joins the good side for a time, but in the crisis issue it is
revealed that Robin has in fact been working with Darkk the whole time;
in the end he is transformed into a Hawkman, before being reborn through
Yggdrasil as the Atom. In the current New 52  Multiverse, these events
took place on Earth-6.

 One Million

In the 853rd Century, the current Batman is aided by the robot called
ROBIN THE TOY WONDER. This Batman's parents were guards on the prison
planet of Pluto and died in a prison riot that turned into a mass
slaughter of the guards. Robin is programmed with the personality of
this Batman as a boy and acts as a foil/source of perspective so that he
will not become consumed by darkness in his quest for justice. This
Robin believes this was the same reason Bruce Wayne brought Dick Grayson
into his life.

Earth-31: Robin Redblade

On this alternate Earth, accelerated climate change has resulted in
rapid sea level rise, transforming Earth-31 into a devastated
waterworld. On the craft Flying Fox, Robin Redblade is one of the crew,
and the vessel is piloted by Captain Leatherwing (Batman of Earth-31).
Earth-31 also seems to have its own Teen Titans, and Robin Redblade is a
member.

Dick Grayson (Earth-43)

In this universe, the setting of Batman & Dracula: Red Rain and its
sequels, the Flying Graysons are killed by the vampire Batman, as shown
in  Infinite Halloween Special. Dick grows up to become an obsessive
vampire hunter, but is turned by Batman in The Search for Ray Palmer:
Red Rain, and becomes his partner. Robin has remained a vampire and is
now a member of the "Blood League", a vampire Justice League, alongside
Earth-43's Vampire Batman.

Dick Grayson (Earth-50)

In the Wildstorm Universe, Dick Grayson is a Planetary agent in Gotham
City, partnered with a man named Jasper who resembles the Joker. He
appears in Planetary/Batman: Night on Earth, prior to the Planetary
team's shift into universes with a Batman. However, given the events of
Flashpoint, this alternate Earth was merged with Earth-0 and Earth-13
and therefore this character no longer exists in main  continuity.

The Dark Knight Universe Robins

These stories are set in Frank Miller's Dark Knight Universe, which is
not considered in continuity with the monthly titles. Miller has stated
that the Dark Knight Universe consists of Batman: Year One, All Star
Batman and Robin, the Spawn/Batman crossover, The Dark Knight
Returns, The Dark Knight Strikes Again and the cancelled Holy
Terror, Batman!_ In this version, Batman looks upon his sidekicks as
employees rather than proteges (although he refers to Robin as a protégé
in All Star Batman and Robin #9), whom he threatens to "fire" from
their "jobs", which he even does to Dick Grayson.

<span id="Richard Grayson"=>

Dick Grayson

[In All Star Batman and Robin, in stark contrast to the original
timeline, Batman and Dick Grayson are shown at odds from the start,
leading to Dick's eventual fall into insanity as depicted in The Dark
Knight Strikes Again.]

In Frank Miller's Dark Knight Universe, Grayson's origin differs in
various ways to the official  Universe. As seen in the All
Star Batman and Robin title, he is a twelve-year-old boy who performs
in the circus with his two parents, as the Flying Graysons. Bruce Wayne
had come to the show many times to watch him perform his stunts. One
night, while Wayne watches the show with reporter Vicki Vale, the
Graysons perform an amazing feat. The audience begin to cheer and clap
when suddenly a man arrives and shoots Grayson's parents in the head.

Batman takes out the gunman while some corrupt Gotham City Police
officers take Dick Grayson into custody. They take him instead to a
place outside Gotham City, into a deserted stretch of forest where they
torture and/or execute people, but Batman comes to the rescue. Batman
takes Dick into the Batmobile and asks him to join him in his crusade
against crime in Gotham City. Dick agrees to join the crusade. Upon
arrival in the Batcave, Batman intends for Dick to survive in the cave
without any help. However Alfred Pennyworth takes pity on Dick and gives
him food and a decent place to sleep. Batman is displeased, as he wants
Dick to go through the same things he did, whether Dick likes it or not.

[In order to taunt Batman emotionally, Grayson takes on the appearance
of a more grotesque and gruesome-looking "Joker" until their final
confrontation in The Dark Knight Strikes Again.]

Later, Batman brings in the killer of Dick's parents, a man called
Jocko-boy Vanzetti. Batman tells him that even though Vanzetti killed
his parents, someone else hired him to do so. Batman gives Grayson, who
at the time had an axe, the choice of whether to kill Jocko-boy or not.
Grayson cuts the tape over Vanzetti's mouth and asks him who hired him
to kill his parents. The answer, much to Batman's disgust, is the Joker.
Batman orders Grayson to make himself a costume. He does so using Robin
Hood as an inspiration. He becomes an archer and wears a cape with a
hood thus calling himself Hood. Batman, upon seeing this, pulls his
hood down, telling him that anyone could do simply that. Batman tells
him to lose the hood and calls him Robin. With his new alter-ego
confirmed, he accompanies Batman to confront Green Lantern, as Batman
and Green Lantern talk in one of Batman's safe houses which Robin had
painted yellow in order to keep Hal Jordan from using his power ring.
After a lengthy discussion in which Jordan loses his composure and
strikes Batman, Jordan accuses Batman of kidnapping Grayson and dressing
him up as his sidekick. Batman tells Jordan that Robin is not Grayson,
but in fact a boy he met six years ago on a trip to Istanbul. He
eventually retracts the lie and merely assures Jordan that Grayson is
not Robin. Robin then reveals he took Jordan's power ring and after a
short fight, Robin accidentally hits Jordan in the throat, cutting his
air supply. Batman then hits Grayson to make him 'stay down', unmasks
and performs a tracheotomy to save Jordan's life. After this, Batman
reflects on the event, saying that he did not do a very good job of
teaching Robin and then takes Robin to his parent's grave to grieve,
claiming that is where it started. Dick cries and punches the headstone,
after which Batman consoles his grieving and mournful young ward.

Sometime later, Batman fires Grayson for proving unsatisfactory, which
strengthens the rift between the two, and they eventually part ways. In
The Dark Knight Returns, Grayson is absent but mentioned several
times. First, Commissioner Gordon asks Bruce if he has spoken with him
recently, and Bruce coldly confirms it. Later, when Batman's new Robin,
Carrie Kelley, rescues Batman and asks about his tank-like vehicle,
Batman responds that "Dick called it the Batmobile", and later when
Batman suffers a diabetic stroke, he desperately calls out Grayson's
name. He is also shown talking to Grayson in his mind, such as when he
calls the Mutant leader a "brand of evil we had never dreamed of." This
seems to imply a sense of fatherly love otherwise not shown, or that
Batman simply missed Grayson's company.

In The Dark Knight Strikes Again, Grayson re-appears as a genetically
altered supervillain. Sometime after his dismissal, he apparently joined
forces with senior villains such as Luthor, and underwent extensive gene
manipulation to gain a healing factor and shapeshifting powers, but at
the cost of his sanity. At the behest of the government, Grayson begins
a maniacal crusade to hunt down and kill as many superheroes as
possible, but in order to conceal his identity and partly due to a
twisted revenge scheme on Batman, Grayson takes on the appearance of the
Joker, who killed himself in The Dark Knight Returns.

After maiming and killing a number of heroes, such as Guardian, the
Creeper and the Martian Manhunter, he seeks out Carrie Kelley, Batman's
new partner, a.k.a. Catgirl, intending to kill her in order to exact his
final revenge on Batman. Grayson confronts Carrie and Green Arrow in the
sewers and engages them in battle. Carrie strikes him with thermite,
acid and all sorts of chemicals that cause Grayson to explode,
apparently killing him, but Saturn Girl later has a vision of a second
encounter between Carrie and Grayson and reveals to Carrie that Grayson
(though his identity is not yet revealed at this point) is still alive.
Grayson eventually ambushes Carrie in the Batcave and proceeds to beat
her brutally, lacerating her lips and breaking her bones one by one.
Batman arrives and recognises Grayson when he activates the Batcave's
self-destruct and Grayson attempts to shut it down with his old abort
code, prompting him to revert to his original form and costume. As
Elongated Man takes Carrie to safety, Batman and Grayson contemptuously
go over their bleak history together, with Grayson even admitting that
despite his harsh treatment, he loved Batman like a father. The two
eventually fight, but Grayson remains unharmed by everything Batman
throws at him: when Batman beheads him with a Thanagarian axe, Grayson
effortlessly catches his head and places it back on his neck.
Eventually, Batman hurls himself and Grayson into a pit of lava beneath
the Batcave; Grayson falls into the lava and is totally disintegrated,
thereby leaving nothing left of Grayson for him to grow back, while
Batman is rescued by Superman. As Grayson's remains disappear, Batman
acknowledges his ward's demise with a sad "So long, Boy Wonder".

Jason Todd

In Batman: The Dark Knight Returns,_ Jason Todd is referred to have
died in the line of duty, although the exact details are not given. It
will be revealed in the prestige format one-shot Dark Knight Returns:
The Last Crusade,_ co-written by Miller and Brian Azzarello. It is
scheduled to be release on February 17, 2016.

Carrie Kelley

Trinity

In the Trinity series, reality is altered, removing Superman, Batman
and Wonder Woman from the timeline. In this alternative world, "Richie"
Grayson is a member of the Zucco mob.

Elseworlds

Alfred is a familiar character in the Batman books as Bruce Wayne's
elderly butler. However, in Batman: Dark Allegiances, set in the World
War II era, Batman, Catwoman, and Alfred were recruited to fight behind
enemy lines in Nazi Germany in the winter of 1940. Alfred is given the
codename Robin.

In Superman & Batman: Generations, Dick Grayson is Robin until he goes
to college. The role is then taken up by Batman's son, Bruce Wayne
Junior, against his mother's wishes. However, he gives up the role when
Dick is murdered, in order to become Batman. Several years later, Clark
Wayne, the biological son of Joel Kent and adopted son of Bruce Wayne
Jr., takes on the role of Robin, before becoming Knightwing.

Set in the 1960s, Batman: Thrillkiller was written and drawn by Howard
Chaykin and Dan Brereton and published in 1997-98. It has Bruce Wayne as
a detective in the Gotham Police after his family was ruined by the
Great Depression. Wayne Manor has been taken over by the rebellious, and
a little demented, Barbara Gordon, daughter of police Commissioner James
Gordon. Her live-in boyfriend is RICHART GRAUSTARK, who goes under the
name of "Dick Grayson", presumably to cover his German origins (World
War II being still fresh in people's minds at the time). Barbara and
Graustark fight crime as Batgirl and Robin, though, in true 1960s
anti-establishment style, their main targets are corrupt cops, in
particular those led by the Two-Face-like Detective Duell and the
Joker-like but very feminine Bianca Steeplechase. In this version,
Grayson's family are still circus acrobats, but their deaths are caused
as a result of his activities as Robin rather than the traditional other
way round. He is overcome by grief and rage over their murder and his
subsequent recklessness leads to his own death. He is replaced as
Barbara's partner by Detective Bruce Wayne, who takes the identity of
Batman, but the memory of him drives even Barbara to the point of
insanity and she adopts the Robin guise as part of seeking revenge.
Within the New 52  Multiverse, Earth-37's 1960s seem comparable to
those of Thrillkiller, although while it has a Batgirl, Robin and
female Joker, it now seems to lack a Batman.

The main character in JLA: The Riddle of the Beast, young Robin Drake
brings together all the heroes of The World to battle the Beast
(Etrigan).

In the French Revolution set Batman: Reign of Terror, Bruce Wayne's
sister learns his secret identity, and designs a Robin outfit to aid
him.

Batman: Dark Knight Dynasty features three generations of Waynes,
past, present and future. In the future section, Brenna Wayne is aided
by an ape with augmented intelligence in a Robin costume, who goes by
the name 'Rodney'.

In the American Civil War set The Blue, The Gray and the Bat, Captain
Bruce Wayne is aided by a Native American named Redbird. Redbird's
family were killed by white men, and, until he got his revenge, he wore
war paint in a design similar to a domino mask.

In the futuristic Robin 3000, Earth is controlled by despotic aliens.
Batman (Bruce Wayne XX) is killed trying to stop them, but his mission
is continued by his nephew, Tom (Thomas) Wayne. This was originally
created by P. Craig Russell in 1986 as Tom Swift 3000, but later
rewritten in 1992 as a Robin story when the original plans fell through.

In the Robin 1996 Elseworlds annual, an unnamed young warrior in 16th
century Japan is raised by the Bat-Samurai, and nicknamed TENGU, after
the bird-spirits, by a female Cat-Ninja. Tengu loses his mentor in
battle. Tengu was later revealed to be the rightful heir to the imperial
throne, and the usurper (believing he knew this and plotted against him)
attempted to kill him. He killed the usurper in self-defense but, since
he had already sworn loyalty, was constrained to suicide as a result of
this dishonor.

In the Detective Comics 1996 Elseworlds annual (Batman:
Leatherwing), an orphan on the streets of 17th century Kingston who
became cabin boy to Leatherwing the pirate.

In the Robin 1998 Legends of The Dead Earth annual, humanity is trying
to reach other worlds in generation ships. On one of these, a group
called the Proctors have seized control and everyone else are slaves who
are executed on their 30th birthdays to conserve the ship's resources.
Tris Plover, a 29-year-old slave, rebels against the Proctors. She meets
another rebel, called the Batman, who gives her the Robin identity. At
the cost of their lives, they succeed in defeating the Proctors and
Robin sets the ship on a course for the planet New Gotham. "Bird Dark"
is the name of Batman's partner in the somewhat garbled fables told on
another colony world, as featured in the "Legends of the Dead Earth"
Batman Annual #20. (1996) While the name is based on Nightwing, the
costume is in Robin's colors.

In JLA: The Nail,_ Dick (as Robin), along with Barbara (as Batgirl) is
tortured then murdered by The Joker with his Kryptonian gauntlets,
driving Batman temporarily insane after he witnesses their ordeals and
death. The grief-stricken hero then kills Joker for revenge. Later, in
the sequel JLA: Another Nail,_ Dick returns as a spirit after the Joker
returns from Hell. He helps Batman defeats the Clown Prince of Crime
once and for all, and gives Batman the strength to move on.

Tiny Titans

Tiny Titans is a kiddie-based series follows the exploits of the Teen
Titans (and other U character), as grade school kids attending school
for Super-hero sidekicks. Dick Grayson's Robin is a primary character in
the series, and often tries to act like the leader, although the rest of
the Tiny Titans rarely listen to him. He temporarily began wearing a
kiddie version of his first Nightwing costume, but later went back to
being Robin. Later issues eventually introduced Jason Todd and Tim Drake
into the series as toddlers who Barbara Gordon babysits. Both Jason and
Dick wear the original Robin costumes, while Tim wears the 2006 "One
Year Later" Robin costume. Talon also appears as a frequent enemy of
Robin, but in the conclusion of issue 46 he gets his hair cut like Robin
by Batman's butler.

Batman: Year 100

An alternative version of Robin appears in Paul Pope's Batman: Year
100 limited series. This Robin is a dark-skinned teenager who acts
as Batman's partner as well as the mechanic for "the Batmobile", a
high-tech motorcycle. Little is revealed about this Robin's backstory
other than that he was apparently adopted by Batman at a young age, and
that Robin is his real name rather than an alias. Unlike other
iterations of the character, the Robin in "Year 100" does not wear a
costume.

Pre-Crisis Hypertime

Hypertime is a fictional concept presented in the 1999  book
series The Kingdom, to explain any continuity discrepancies in 
Universe stories and a variations of the Multiverse that existed before
Crisis on Infinite Earths. During the "Hypertension" story arc, Superboy
Kon-El travels through multiple realities battling Black Zero an evil
alternate version of himself that's been abducting other clone
Superboys. One of the alternate Superboys has become Batman's latest
Robin.

Captain Carrot and His Amazing Zoo Crew

The 1980s series Captain Carrot and His Amazing Zoo Crew presented the
parallel Earth of "Earth-C-Minus," a world populated by funny animal
superheroes that paralleled the mainstream  Universe. Earth-C-Minus
was the home of BOYD, THE ROBIN WONDER, a robin sidekick to the
Batmouse, and presumably an analog of the mainstream  Universe's Dick
Grayson (including wearing a variant of Dick Grayson's Robin
costume).

Batman Beyond

Kyle Higgins tweets that a version of Robin will be featured in Batman
Beyond 2.0.

