AMAZING-MAN is the name used by four fictional characters published by
. The first three are African-American superheroes and are
members of the same family. The first Amazing-Man debuted in All-Star
Squadron #23 (July 1983), and was created by Roy Thomas and Jerry
Ordway. The second Amazing-Man debuted in Justice League America #86
(March 1994), and was created by Dan Vado and Marc Campos. The third
Amazing-Man debuted in Justice Society of America (vol. 3) #12 (March
2008), and was created by Geoff Johns and Dale Eaglesham. The fourth
Amazing Man debuted in OMAC (vol. 3) #2 (December 2011), and was
created by Dan DiDio and Keith Giffen.


Publication history

Although a 1980s creation of writer Roy Thomas, the Amazing-Man
published by  was placed in the 1940s and made a contemporary
of various Golden Age superheroes. The character was created by Roy
Thomas as a tribute to Bill Everett's Amazing-Man, a character he
created for Centaur Publications during the so-called Golden Age of
comics.


Fictional character biography

Will Everett

Will Everett was a promising young African-American Olympian who had
competed in the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin, but his post-Olympic
career devolved into a janitorial profession at a laboratory owned by
Dr. Terry Curtis. During an accident involving the explosion of some
equipment to which he was exposed (developed by the criminal mastermind
the Ultra-Humanite), Everett quickly developed the ability to mimic
whatever properties he touched (similar to ' Absorbing
Man). For example, if he touched steel, then his body became composed of
steel.

All-Star Squadron

At first, he was employed by the Ultra-Humanite as a henchman along with
Curtis (as Cyclotron) and Deathbolt. However, his sympathies soon
swayed towards the side of good after repeated exposure to the
All-Star Squadron, a team of both Golden Age characters and retroactive
characters like himself, with whom he joined to defeat his former
employer's machinations. He then served a lengthy stint as a member of
this voluminous mystery man organization.

In February 1942, the Squadron helped Everett defeat the bigoted villain
in his home town of Detroit, the Real American. During the first
Crisis, Amazing-Man was one of a group of heroes chosen by the Monitor
to stop the Anti-Monitor's quest for destruction. On a future
case, Amazing-Man's powers changed so that now he had mastery of
magnetism while losing his ability to mimic matter.

Civil Rights Activist

In the 1950s, his secret identity was revealed to the general public by
J. Edgar Hoover. This act endangered the lives of Everett's wife and
family. During the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s, the murder of his
nephew alongside two other civil rights activists spurred his
involvement in the Civil Rights Movement of the time. He led marches
against segregation across the United States of America, and also helped
to quell riots in Detroit. Everett was also responsible for the capture
of Martin Luther King's murderer James Earl Ray. In the 
Universe, he is considered the third most important advocate for African
American civil rights, behind acclaimed activists Martin Luther King and
Malcolm X.

Heirs

It was later revealed that his grandson, Will Everett III (a.k.a.
"Junior") also developed mimicry abilities. Will Everett Senior was last
seen in the hospital, visited by his grandson Will Everett III. The
senior Everett was dying of cancer. The status of his son, the father
of Amazing-Man III, is currently unknown. For a brief time, his grandson
carried on the legacy of Amazing-Man before dying tragically. Later,
another grandson named Markus Clay would take up the mantle of
Amazing-Man.

Will Everett III

[Will Everett III and Maxima, artist Tom Morgan] Will Everett III
carried on his grandfather's heroic tradition, joining the Justice
League at Wonder Woman's request. As a member, he was
instrumental in defeating the Overmaster alongside the other members of
the League and reformed members of the Cadre of the Immortal. Soon
after this, Captain Atom formed a splinter group of the JLA nicknamed
Extreme Justice. He remained with this team until its end.

Later, Will joined the Crimson Fox's unofficial re-grouping of Justice
League Europe. In their single ill-fated adventure, Will was apparently
killed by a supervillainess named the Mist, along with the Crimson Fox
and Blue Devil. In Amazing-Man's case, Mist tricked him into mimicking
glass and then shattered him. The status of his father Will Everett II
is unknown, but his cousin Markus Clay is the new Amazing-Man.

During the events of JLA/Avengers, Will was briefly resurrected by the
effects of Krona's tampering with reality. He was shown fighting the
Absorbing Man, an enemy of Thor.

Years later during 52, Will is memorialized by Martian Manhunter with
a statue in Happy Harbor alongside other fallen Justice League members.

Markus Clay

The third Amazing-Man is a man named Markus Clay, who operates out of
New Orleans, Louisiana. He is Will Everett's other grandson, and the
cousin of Will Everett III. Markus is currently helping survivors of
Hurricane Katrina. A recent recruit of the Justice Society of
America, he has helped the team communicate with Gog. After Gog's
defeat, Markus returns to New Orleans, considering forming a team of his
own.

Despite having resigned from the JSA, Markus is seen attending Damage's
funeral following his death during Blackest Night.

New 52

A new Amazing-Man appears following the events of Flashpoint, where
among other changes, the JSA has been removed from the history of Prime
Earth. The new Amazing-Man is revealed to be Rocker Bonn, a former
Checkmate agent who was given metahuman abilities by Project Cadmus.
After going into hiding in Texas, Bonn is attacked by Kevin Kho, the new
OMAC. Bonn is defeated by Kho and subsequently absorbed by Brother Eye,
who states that he may prove useful at a later date.


Powers and abilities

-   Will Everett was originally capable of transforming himself into a
    living, breathing facsimile of any material that he touched.
-   Later Will Everett's powers were altered, and he was instead able to
    magnetically attract or repel objects with his hands.
-   Will Everett III could cause his body to duplicate the properties of
    any inorganic material he touched from stone to glass. If he touched
    the pavement, for example, he became a sentient being made of living
    stone, with all its commensurate strengths and weaknesses.
-   Will Everett III could also absorb and duplicate vast amounts of
    energy, as when he defeated the Overmaster by draining and
    duplicating its powers.
-   Markus Clay appears to possess the same abilities as the first
    two Amazing-Men.


In other media

On the television series The Flash, in the episode "Power Outage",
Will Everett is mentioned as one of the people who seemingly died as a
result of the particle accelerator accident that gave The Flash his
powers.

