ANTAEUS is the name of two fictional characters from .


Antaeus (unnamed)

This Antaeus was seen as a member of Maxie Zeus's New Olympians. His
origin has never been revealed, but he has super-human strength and
limited invulnerability as long as he stays in contact with the natural
earth. {{-}}


Mark Antaeus

MARK ANTAEUS was the son of a scientist who injected Mark with
experimental growth hormones as he grew up. Because of these hormones
Mark pushed the boundaries of human agility, strength and endurance
although never becoming truly superhuman.

Mark became a fireman and a local hero, idolising Superman to the extent
that he had a large 'S-shield' tattoo across his back (This shield was
the one worn by Superman in Kingdom Come foreshadowing the dark turn
Mark would take). After failing to rescue a family caught in a burning
building Mark had something of a nervous breakdown, disappearing for
over two years. When he returned it was revealed he had volunteered to
STAR Labs as a guinea pig for cybernetic enhancements. Despite being
horribly disfigured under his cybernetic armour the hero 'Antaeus' was
blissfully happy to be able to help people and this small town hero's
exploits came to the Justice League's attention. He was quickly admitted
to the JLA and shown to partake in many adventures (only within this
book).

Antaeus' behaviour was somewhat erratic and he came into conflict with
Green Lantern, Kyle Rayner who feels that he is unreasonably driven and
dotes on his idol, Superman. He also draws away from his human life,
cutting off his family and fiancee.

When the JLA refuse to step in to remove a Middle Eastern despot,
Antaeus goes against their wishes, overthrowing a hostile government and
murdering their leader (who bears a striking resemblance to Saddam
Hussein). Antaeus then comes into direct conflict with the JLA, he puts
up a good fight but his cybernetic systems are badly damaged and he
retreats. Seeing that his actions have destabilized the country and
ultimately made things worse for its citizens, Antaeus is consumed with
grief and regret and lets his damaged nuclear reactor (the source of his
power) explode.

In an epilogue we see Superman's grief over his inability to help Mark
and Mark's Helmet is placed in the JLA trophy room.

Apart from his starring role in the one shot JLA: Superpower, Antaeus'
only other appearance was in the JLA/Avengers crossover in which all
previous members of the JLA and the Avengers appear.

Category: superheroes Category:Fictional cyborgs Category:
Comics characters with superhuman strength Category:Characters created
by Bill Willingham Category:Comics characters introduced in 1997
