AQUAGIRL is the name of several fictional characters featured as
superheroines in the comic books and other media produced by .


Early incarnations

Lisa Morel

LISA MOREL is introduced in Adventure Comics #266 (November 1959) as
one of several violet-eyed Atlantean children born unable to adapt to
the watery world. They had been sent to the surface in waterproof
lifeboats so they might survive among land-dwellers, and Lisa had been
adopted by the scientist Dr. Hugo Morel and his wife. With Aquaman in
danger, Lisa's water-breathing and telepathic powers awaken; she makes
herself a costume identical to Aquaman's, takes on the name "Aquagirl"
and fights alongside him. However, her new-found powers are short-lived,
and she loses them permanently. This is the first and last appearance of
the character.

Selena

SELENA is a young Poseidonis teenager who temporarily teams up with
Aquaman under the name "Aqua-Girl" in World's Finest Comics #133 (May
1963) to make her former boyfriend jealous; she succeeds, making Aqualad
jealous of her temporary status as Aquaman's sidekick as well. This is
the first and last appearance of the character.


Tula

TULA is introduced in Aquaman Vol. 1 #33 (May–June 1967). After
losing her parents soon after her birth, she had been found and adopted
by one of the royal families of Atlantis. Given the title Princess of
Poseidonis, Tula is schooled in Atlantean traditions, and never leaves
the royal palace until she meets Aqualad (Garth) at age 15 in this
issue.

Tula sometimes helps Aqualad with missions during his time with the
original Teen Titans, using the name Aquagirl. When Aquaman leaves
his throne to search for his then-missing wife Mera, Narkran takes over
Atlantis as a dictator. His reign falls only when Tula leads a rebellion
against him. Tula and Garth resume their romance when he returns to
Atlantis, and they later appear in the 1980s revival series New Teen
Titans to aid the Titans in bringing down the H.I.V.E..

Death

During the Crisis on Infinite Earths limited series (1985–1986),
Aquagirl is killed by the villain Chemo when she drowns in water that he
has poisoned.

Years later, in the Tempest mini-series, a woman claiming to be Tula
enters Garth's life. In truth, it is a doppelganger created by the
villainous Slizzath as part of an elaborate plan to siphon Garth's
mystical energies for his own dark purposes. Garth sees through the ruse
and is able to defeat Slizzath, and finally gain a sense of closure
about Tula's death. It is also at this time that Garth adopted a new
identity as "Tempest."

Most recently, Tula reappears in Teen Titans (vol. 3) issues 30 and
31. Aquagirl is brought back to life by Brother Blood — along with Hawk
and Dove, Phantasm, and Kole — to fight against the Titans. After being
freed by Beast Boy and Raven. Kid Eternity is able to lay the deceased
Titans back to rest.

Tula has a statue in the "Hall of Fallen Titans" at Titans Tower,
alongside the original Hawk and Dove, Kole, and others. A year later,
Tula is channeled by Kid Eternity when the Titans face Blood again. She
angrily pummels the villain, claiming to be enraged about being
resurrected as his puppet. She later is then returned to the afterlife
after her time limit in Eternity's body is reached.

Blackest Night

In the Blackest Night miniseries, Tula, Aquaman, and Dolphin appear as
a group of reanimated Black Lanterns who attack Tempest and Mera. Tula
and Dolphin argue over Tempest, at the same time mocking him for not
saving them. Sensing Garth's hope that she could fight what had been
done to her to, Tula tore out his heart, killing him and bringing about
his reanimation as a Black Lantern. Tula later appears to battle the
Titans. However, her body is soon destroyed by a burst of white light
emanating from Dawn Granger.

The New 52

In The New 52 rebooted continuity, Tula is first seen as a shadowing
female Atlantean reporting to the current King of Atlantis, Orm aka
Ocean Master, about the attacks made to the boy born with purple eyes,
who is believed by some to bring the end of Atlantis. Ocean Master
ordered Garth to be returned to his mother unharmed. She later
battles Cyborg during Atlantis' invasion of the United States, and
later when Aquaman becomes the king of Atlantis, she's seen reporting to
him and according to the conversation she had with him, it is revealed
that she and Orm share the same father, meaning that Orm is her
half-brother.


Lorena Marquez

LORENA MARQUEZ is on a date at the San Diego Zoo when an earthquake
shakes San Diego and causes it to sink deep into the sea, killing
thousands — including Lorena's entire family. She comes into contact
with Aquaman, who nurses her back to health as she discovers that she
has developed the ability to breathe underwater like an Atlantean. The
two manage to locate the other survivors of the quake, as well as Anton
Geist, the scientist responsible for the catastrophe. Lorena and Aquaman
have no choice but to begin rebuilding the city as "Sub Diego." When
Ocean Master switches lives with Aquaman, Lorena assumes the identity of
Aquagirl, adopting an aquatic costume.


Other versions

In the 1996 limited series Kingdom Come, Aquagirl is Tula II, the
estranged teenage daughter of Garth (formerly Aqualad, now Aquaman).
She is named Tula after her father's late girlfriend, and is part of a
team consisting of the other original Titans' children who end up taking
Batman's side in the story's key conflict. In her appearances, Tula
seemingly demonstrates a partial shapeshifting ability, changing parts
of her body to resemble those of sea creatures. She is last seen
battling Donna Troy during the climatic battle at the superhuman Gulag
and is possibly killed by the nuclear explosion that ends the conflict

This Tula's mother is possibly Deep Blue, described in annotations for
the series as "Mizuko Perkins," daughter of Tsunami and Neptune Perkins.
In standard  continuity, Deep Blue is Aquaman's half-sister
Debbie, the daughter of Tsunami and Atlan, raised by Tsunami and Neptune
Perkins.


In other media

Television

-   In Batman Beyond, Aquagirl is MAREENA, a member of the future
    Justice League and the daughter of Aquaman. The character was
    created specifically for the Batman Beyond episodes "The Call:
    Part 1" (November 11, 2000) and "The Call: Part 2" (November 18,
    2000), in which Batman meets the "Justice League Unlimited," a
    future version of the Justice League. Aquagirl was voiced by Jodi
    Benson, the actress who provided the voice of Ariel in The Little
    Mermaid. When Batman is going over her file on the computer, it is
    shown that she is the daughter of Aquaman, with powers including
    control over water. She later reappears in the Justice League
    Unlimited series (which showcases the present-day lineup of the
    JLU) in "Epilogue". She has very distinctive platinum blonde hair;
    it is always wet and slicked evenly back. Her costume varies; she is
    usually portrayed as wearing a one-piece swimsuit of various colors
    with bare arms and legs and also wears fingerless gloves.
-   In Season 2 of Entourage, Mandy Moore portrays Aquagirl in the
    Aquaman movie that exists in the Entourage fictional universe. The
    storyline has Moore, who was playing herself as the ex-girlfriend of
    character Vince, about to be dropped from the project due to the
    turmoil of their personal relationship. Mandy is not removed from
    the movie however, and Vince and Mandy re-kindle their
    former romance. Following this, Mandy breaks Vince's heart again,
    stating that she still loves her former fiancé, Chris. Vince decides
    to continue working on the movie with Mandy still attached. It then
    becomes the highest-grossing movie opening of all time.

[Tula as she appears in Young Justice.]

-   Tula (though she is never referred to as Aquagirl in the
    first season) appears in the Young Justice episode "Downtime"
    voiced by Cree Summer. She is portrayed as the childhood friend of
    Kaldur'ahm who ultimately entered into a relationship with his
    friend Garth after Kaldur left Atlantis to become
    Aquaman's sidekick. Unlike the comics, the Tula in Young Justice
    is shown to possess magical abilities that help her
    manipulate water. When Kaldur returns to Poseidonis for a dinner
    with the royal family, he invites Tula as his guest unaware that she
    has left him for his best friend. She eventually tells him about
    this, and the two reconcile during an attack on the city led by
    Black Manta, with Kaldur departing on friendly terms when he
    eventually returns to the surface world. Tula and Garth make a cameo
    appearance in "Failsafe", working alongside Red Arrow, Rocket and
    Zatanna in a training simulation. In the episode "Alienated" set
    five years later, Tula's death is mentioned as one of the reasons
    Aqualad (who is undercover about the Light's partner) has apparently
    turned on his former team. This is the first instance of Tula being
    referenced as Aquagirl in the series. In the episode "Satifaction",
    her statue is among the statues fallen of heroes located in the
    grotto of Mount Justice. In the episode "The Fix", Tula appears as a
    psychic projection when Miss Martian and Artemis Crock enter
    Aqualad's mind.

Film

-   Tula makes a cameo appearance in Justice League: The Flashpoint
    Paradox as a member of Aquaman's army in the altered timeline. She
    is killed in the final battle with the Amazons.

Video Games

-   Tula, as Aquagirl, appears in Young Justice: Legacy, with Cree
    Summer reprising the role. She serves as the coordinator of the
    Team, providing information on The Light's attempts to steal the
    pieces of an ancient statue, and keeping the pieces safe. Near the
    end of the game, Klarion disguised as Tempest tricks her into giving
    him the pieces of the statue, and kidnaps her, intending to use her
    magic to revive Tiamat in Bialya. The Team arrives to free Tula and
    defeat Klarion and Blockbuster, but is too late to stop
    Tiamat's revival. When Tiamat proves too powerful to kill, a
    weakened Tula offers to use her remaining magic to defeat and
    imprison Tiamat again, sacrificing herself just like Marduk did in
    ancient times. Tula succeeds, but is killed by falling debris.
    Tempest grieves her death, and Aqualad quits the Team, leading up to
    the events in the second season of the show.

