AQUALAD is the name of two fictional comic book superheroes appearing in
books published by . The first Aqualad, Garth, debuted in
Adventure Comics #269 (February 1960), and was created by writer
Robert Bernstein and artist Ramona Fradon. The second Aqualad, Jackson
Hyde, was based on the version originally created for the Young
Justice animated TV series by Greg Weisman, Brandon Vietti and Phil
Bourassa. Several months prior to the launch of the cartoon, an altered
version of the character was brought into the comic books by writer
Geoff Johns and artist Ivan Reis.


Fictional character biography

Garth

Approximately four decades ago, King Thar and his wife Queen Berra
became the reigning monarchs of Shayeris, the capital of a group of
Idyllist colonies in the Hidden Valley. Radical Idyllists deposed and
murdered King Thar and banished his pregnant wife Queen Berra to
Poseidonis, the capital city of Atlantis; there she gave birth to Garth,
a child with purple eyes. Superstitious Atlanteans claimed that Garth
had been born genetically inferior due to his purple eyes and banished
him to a barren seabed leagues away from Atlantis. He survived and later
befriended Aquaman, the sometimes outcast King of Atlantis.

Kaldur'ahm

Jackson Hyde first appeared in Brightest Day #10 (September 2010).
This coincides with the appearance of Aqualad in the Young Justice
animated series (albeit using the name Kaldur'ahm). According to
Johns, the new Aqualad is named Jackson Hyde, and is a black teenager
from New Mexico. In a teaser poster for the Brightest Day event, he
is shown using "hard water" abilities to create a sword. This ability
had previously been thought to belong exclusively to Aquaman's wife,
Mera, and people from her world.


In other media

Television

-   Aqualad's first animated appearance was alongside Aquaman in
    Filmation's 1967 animated series The Superman/Aquaman Hour of
    Adventure, as well as in the Teen Titans shorts that were part of
    the series. The Aquaman cartoon series of 1968 was a repackaged
    30-minute version featuring primarily (but not exclusively) Aquaman
    and Aqualad. He was voiced by Jerry Dexter.
-   Aqualad has also appeared on the Teen Titans animated series
    voiced by Wil Wheaton. His first appearance was in "Deep Six" where
    he, Tramm, and the Titans defeated Trident; here and in his other
    appearances, he demonstrates telepathic control of sea life. In
    "Winner Take All", Aqualad demonstrates the ability to control water
    by means of Hydrokinesis. In the series, he serves as a Titans East
    member, a short term crush of Raven and Starfire, and a temporary
    rival to Beast Boy. He is now an official member of Teen Titans'
    sister group, Titans East, with Bumblebee, Speedy, and the twins Más
    y Menos. He appears in a cameo in the movie after the series, Teen
    Titans: Trouble in Tokyo. As the Titans travel to Tokyo, Japan he
    comes out of the water and waves to them.
-   Aqualad also makes eight appearances on the comic series based on
    the show. In his first appearance in Teen Titans Go!_ (issue #10),
    he searches for Gill Girl. He told the Titans that she used to have
    a crush on him, but he looked at her like a sister. Beast Boy did
    not believe him and says that she dumped him. He made short
    appearances in #20, #25, & #27. One of the stories in issue #30
    focused on him and Speedy. In issue #48 an alternative version of
    him as Tempest appeared in a group called the Teen Tyrants.
-   Aqualad was mentioned in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold
    episode "The Color of Revenge!", as Batman says to Robin, "Even
    Aqualad had to scrub barnacles." He made a full appearance in
    "Sidekicks Assemble!", voiced by Zack Shada as a teenager and by
    Zachary Gordon as a child. He battled Ra's al Ghul along with Robin
    and Speedy. Here, Aqualad is shown to be in his late teens and is
    very resentful of the praise lavished upon Aquaman, eventually
    telling him off in the episode's final scene.
-   Garth appears in the Young Justice episode "Downtime", where he is
    voiced by Yuri Lowenthal. In the episode, it is explained that Garth
    is the best friend of Kaldur'am. While Kaldur went on to become
    Aquaman's sidekick, Garth stayed in Atlantis in order to hone his
    abilities at an Atlantean sorcery conservatory. Sometime in between
    this, and the episode 'Downtime', he started a relationship with
    Tula, who was formerly involved with Kaldur. A reference to his
    Tempest identity is made during a battle with Black Manta, with
    Garth shouting "I summon the power of the tempest!" while conjuring
    a cyclone.
-   He is referenced in Teen Titans Go! episode 3 Drivers Ed his face
    appears on a club called the Cave where he is a DJ.
-   Aqualad appears in the animated series Young Justice, voiced by
    Khary Payton. His name is Kaldur'ahm, but he goes by the nickname
    Kaldur (the name "Kaldur'ahm" is apparently a nod to Cal Durham, a
    supporting character in the Aquaman comic book stories; an
    African-American man, formerly a colleague of Black Manta, but who
    betrayed the villain and became an ally of Aquaman). It has been
    confirmed that within the series, he is the son of supervillain
    Black Manta, and the leader of Young Justice. In the episode
    "Alienated" it is revealed that Kaldur has left the team and has
    aligned himself with his father. He blames the team for Aquagirl's
    death on a mission during the 5 years in between seasons as well as
    Aquaman for not telling him who his real father was. He dons a
    similar outfit to Black Manta. While confronting the team, he
    apparently murders Artemis. It is later revealed that his entire
    actions have been part of an elaborate ruse to go deep undercover in
    Black Manta's organization.

Video games

The Garth version of Aqualad appears in the video game Aquaman: Battle
for Atlantis. He is also an unlockable character in the game.

