ARGENT is a  fictional superhero. She first appeared in the
second series of the Teen Titans comics in issue #1. She remained a
regular member of that team for a long time, up until the events of
Graduation Day when the Titans were disbanded by Nightwing.


Fictional character biography

Teen Titans

TONI MONETTI is the daughter of a former U.S. Senator from New Jersey.
Around the time she turned sixteen, Toni's skin gained a silver sheen.
At a pool party for her sixteenth birthday, Toni is mysteriously
teleported away. She and a few other teens learn that they are half
alien, their mothers having been impregnated by an alien race called the
H'San Natall. The teens are part of a sleeper agent program created by
the H'San Natall to defeat the super-powered beings already on Earth.
The teens stay together, and with the funding of Loren Jupiter, become
the newest incarnation of the Teen Titans. Toni’s ability to control
bursts of silver plasma energy earns her the codename Argent.

This group is seen in the crossover entitled "JLA: World Without
Grownups". Argent and her allies are seen rescuing misguided children
from the dangers of an amusement park that has no adult supervision. 

At first, Toni is not a very serious adventurer. However, when teammate
Joto apparently dies, Argent takes it particularly hard. She vows to
become a better hero. When Mr. Jupiter disbands the team, Argent seeks
training advice from Robin. She accompanies him on a mission to stop
drug runners, but when she finds out her father is involved, she decides
to keep the information secret.

When the Teen Titans reform, Argent is instrumental in initiating a
membership drive. The team takes on new members Fringe and Captain
 Jr. (also known as CM3). A possible romance between Argent and
CM3 is explored but is abandoned after a particularly horrible date (CM3
is unable to cover the bill).

After another battle with the H'San Natall, the team discovers that Joto
is, in fact, alive. When members Prysm and Fringe decide to stay in
space, and with CM3 having left earlier, the team decides to disband.

The Titans

When the original five Titans, (Nightwing, Troia, Flash, Tempest, and
Arsenal), decide to reform as the Teen Titans in the wake of the Technis
Imperative conflict (in which Toni had fought alongside the former
Titans and the JLA), Argent is invited to join.

Later, the Titans participate in another case involving the highly
addictive speed drug, Velocity 9. During the investigation, the role of
Argent's father as a distributor of the drug comes to light. Argent has
to choose between her father and the Titans, and ultimately allows her
father to be arrested.

Around this time, Argent is one of the first to fight against the
Asmodel/Spectre entity in the "Day of Judgment" limited series. First,
alongside Titans teammate Damage, then with other superheroes, she helps
fight a literal invasion from Hell in the streets of New York City. For
her troubles, Spectre turns her eyes into squirming fly larvae. She and
other heroes affected are restored by the efforts of the "Sentinels of
Magic".

In the 'Graduation Day'' story arc, a mysterious android from the future
known as Indigo attacks the Titans and Young Justice, resulting in the
apparent deaths of Troia and Omen. After the funeral, Nightwing disbands
the Titans.

When the Teen Titans are once again reformed by former members Cyborg,
Starfire, and Beast Boy, Argent is not invited. However, when this
version of the Teen Titans fights against Dr. Light and all reserve
members are called, she is present. She also joins the Titans in their
battle against Superboy-Prime and saves Risk by stopping the blood
flowing from his shoulder after Superboy-Prime rips his arm off.

One Year Later

One Year Later, Argent becomes one of the twenty members of the Teen
Titans who quit after a few weeks. Her look is redesigned, and during
this time she dates and later breaks up with teammate Molecule.

Final Crisis and later appearances

At some point, Argent falls victim to the Dark Side Club, and is forced
to fight other captive metahumans at the behest of the Apokoliptan gods
on Earth. Argent is later rescued by Miss Martian, who takes her and
the other former prisoners to Titans Tower to rest. While there, Argent
is offered a spot on the Teen Titans by Wonder Girl, but declines.

Alongside a number of other former teen heroes, Argent, Prysm, and Joto
(now called "Hot Spot") later assist the then-current team of Teen
Titans during their battle against Superboy-Prime and the Legion of
Doom.

During the Final Crisis, Argent is one of the superheroes drafted by
Green Lantern Alan Scott under Article X.

Following the events of Blackest Night, Argent is seen at the funeral
for her former teammate and fellow Titan Damage.


Powers and abilities

Argent can generate solid energy constructs out of silver plasma
(colored bright red in the animated series), in simple forms such as
protective shields, daggers, and battering rams. While she initially
could not fly, she could create slides and flying platforms to carry
herself and others through the air. Her silver plasma energy is said to
be of a similar wavelength to the green plasma energies of a Green
Lantern's ring. In JLA: Rock of Ages, Argent's powers in the future
had evolved to become almost identical to a Green Lantern's, as she was
able to fly and could create more complex energy constructs, such as an
entire army of silver plasma creatures and make them act on their own
accord but remain under her control.


In other media

Television

-   Argent appeared in the Teen Titans episode "Calling All Titans"
    voiced by Hynden Walch. She meets Starfire and becomes an honorary
    Titan, but she is soon captured by General Immortus of the
    Brotherhood of Evil. Argent can fire crimson energy beams, and can
    use that energy to form objects similar to the abilities of the
    Green Lantern. The Argent in this series appears to be a New
    Zealander rather than an American. Argent has also been shown to
    have an interest in fashion when she asks Starfire: "Does this come
    in black?_" when the yellow communicator clashes with her
    dark clothes. When Más y Menos unfreeze all of the captured Titans
    during the final battle of "Titans Together", Argent joins
    the fight. She is seen sending two energy beams in the form of hands
    after a fleeing Johnny Rancid. Later, she is seen in Titans Tower
    and before the "battle" against Dr. Light.

Miscellaneous

-   She has also appeared in the Teen Titans Go!_ comic (issues #34,
    #36, #39, and #41).

Homages

In Yu-Gi-Oh! GX, Elemental Hero Burstinatrix's costume resembles Argent
from the Teen Titans.

