ARION is a fictional sword and sorcery hero published by . He
debuted in Warlord (vol. 1) #55 (March 1982), and was created by Paul
Kupperberg and Jan Duursema.


Publication history

Arion began as a back-up feature in the  book Warlord with
issue #55. The Arion feature continued its run until issue #62. Arion
then gained his own series, Arion Lord of Atlantis, beginning with #1,
(November 1982). The series lasted for 35 issues, running from November
1982 to September 1985. Arion also appeared in  Presents in a
crossover with Superman.


Fictional character biography

The title character Arion is a powerful Homo Magi from the nobility of
ancient Atlantis. Arion is an immortal sorcerer who was born in 45,000
BC. Ari'ahn and Garn Daanuth are the twin sons of CALCULHA and DARK
MAJISTRA, two very powerful Atlantean sorcerers. While Calculha raised
Ari'ahn to be a follower of light and the Lords of Order, Majistra
raised Garn to be an acolyte of the Lords of Chaos. His companions
include an Atlantean guardsman, Wyynde, and Lady Chian, his lover
and the captain of King D'Tilluh's royal guard. Among his enemies are
his brother Garn Daanuth, a formidable practitioner of the dark arts and
Chaon, the puissant god of evil and chaos.

In his first appearances Arion was a sorcerer who protected the ancient,
then land-bound kingdom of Atlantis during an upcoming ice age. After
thousands of years of adventures Arion lost his ability to channel magic
directly from his body and had to rely on mystical artifacts for his
magical powers.

He later appeared during and after the Crisis on Infinite Earths event
where he was made part of Power Girl's post-Crisis backstory. He
eventually turned up in the present day where his body was taken over by
Mordru and his spirit imprisoned in Gemworld. His spirit was finally
released and allowed to go to the afterlife by Power Girl and Hawkgirl
(along with a recently awakened Dove), in order to weaken Mordru. Before
his soul departed, Arion revealed to Power Girl that she was not his
granddaughter and thus not an Atlantean.

Current status

Arion reappeared in Infinite Crisis as one of the mystics gathered in
Atlantis to keep the Spectre at bay, and later in the Day of Vengeance
tie-in special as one of several magical beings summoned to help rebuild
the shattered Rock of Eternity. No explanation was given for Arion's
involvement at the time. It was later revealed that this Arion was in
fact a pretender, a native of Akron named Bill Knightley who had decided
to trade on Arion's name and reputation to build himself up in the
mystical community.

The real Arion's involvement begins in the year 1659, when Arion is
awakened from a night of debauchery by visions of a cataclysmic future
centered around the presence of Superman. Cut off from his natural
magics, Arion employed certain artefacts to propel himself forward to
Superman's present. Arriving in Metropolis, Arion subjected Superman and
his friends at the Daily Planet to a vision of a possible future where
Superman and other alien heroes' involvement in humanity caused people
to become dependent on them, ultimately producing an apocaplyse as their
alien intervention held back the 'natural cycle' of civilisations
falling upon reaching their peak, culminating in a mass apocalypse as
the darkness they had held back for so long came at them with full
force. Arion hoped to force Superman to retire and prevent the
predictions from coming true.

Superman was given two weeks in which to decide how he would deal with
Arion's request, during which Arion illustrated his point by magically
steering a "field trip" of adolescent New Gods, chaperoned by Lightray
and Fastbak, to come crashing into Metropolis and go wild with their
divine powers, causing untold havoc and general interference with the
populace. Superman defused the situation with Lightray's help and
deduced Arion's involvement. At roughly the same time, Arion kidnapped
Bill Knightley from outside the Oblivion Bar, interrogated him, and
nearly killed him. The only thing that saved Knightley was his knowledge
of the recently begun "Tenth Age of Magic," a tumultuous change in the
world's mystical equilibrium. Knightley claimed to be studying the shift
and Arion decided he might have some value alive.

At the end of the two weeks, Arion and Superman met again; Superman
chose to remain active as part of Earth's defense and deeply involved
with humanity, refusing to give up hope that he could make a difference.
Arion's vicious response was to cast a powerful mind manipulation spell,
with the intent of using Superman as a weapon to remove the threat of
other alien heroes. Superman was able to resist thanks to training from
the Martian Manhunter after his period under the control of Maxwell
Lord. Given a mystic shield by the Phantom Stranger to protect him
from direct assault by Arion's magics (during which the Stranger
revealed that, while Arion's prediction could come to pass, the loss
of life and experience that would result if Superman simply allowed
civilisation to fall meant that mankind had to try to find another way),
Superman was able to defeat Arion and disarm him of his rings, amulets
and charms from which he derived his magic. Arion was returned to 1659
where he plans his next move on Superman in the future.

