ARTEMIS OF BANA-MIGHDALL is a fictional Amazon superheroine, a comic
book character published by . She debuted in Wonder Woman
(vol. 2) #90 (September 1994), and was created by writer William
Messner-Loebs and artist Mike Deodato.


Fictional character history

Amazon tribe background

As described in her comic book appearances, Artemis was born an Amazon
as a member of the Egyptian tribe of Bana-Mighdall, who migrated from
Greece to various European and Middle Eastern countries before finally
settling in Egypt. Three thousand years ago, the two Amazon Queens
(Hippolyta and Antiope) split the Amazon nation in two. Hippolyta's
tribe traveled to the isolated island of Themyscira (otherwise known as
Paradise Island) to live immortal lives in order to protect the doorway
to the Underworld called Doom's Doorway. Antiope's tribe was never given
immortality and were forced to mate with common men in order to
guarantee their tribe's survival over the centuries. As they had
renounced their Olympian gods once the two Queens parted ways, they
eventually began to assimilate various religions and goddesses from the
many lands they traveled to. Some of those included the goddesses Isis,
Mammitu, Bast, and Neith. It was in Egypt that they finally built the
city of Bana-Mighdall, which in their language translates to "The
Temple of Women". Thanking the Amazons for their worship, one of their
new goddesses created a powerfully consistent sandstorm to surround and
protect their city from any outsiders who could not be trusted, or
"ariadnas". The Bana-Mighdallian Amazons eventually began an uneasy
trade with outside cities in order to create commerce. They would
exchange custom-made weapons and their warrior skills for goods and
slaves for breeding.

Enter: Artemis

Over the centuries the Bana-Mighdallian weapons and services became
above par and were in much demand. This way of living continued until
the late 20th century. It was into this period that Artemis was born. As
a child, Artemis was raised in poverty among her tribe, running naked
through barren hills and often hungry. By the time she was 10 years
old she was trained to carry 50 lbs. packs silently across night
battlefields. At one point in her teens she briefly left her people
to find a new life in Man's World, allying with Ra's al Ghul as he
launched a plan to decimate the world with stolen nuclear missiles
acquired with the aid of a salvaged Bizarro, claiming to be eighteen
rather than fourteen and proving herself as a trained warrior by
defeating several of Ra's forces. After being defeated by Batman-
although her ability to hold her own against him when she was only
fourteen was still impressive-, Artemis eventually turned against Ra's
after leading him to Themyscira with the intention of allowing him to
use it as a base, realising during the attack that she could not cause
the deaths of her own people. She returned home after being inspired by
a brief meeting with Superman, opting to return to a life of relative
tranquility.

Eventually Wonder Woman found their city while searching for the villain
The Cheetah, who had stolen her golden Lasso of Truth. As the
Bana-Mighdallian's original Themyscirian language had changed over time
to incorporate Middle Eastern dialects, Diana had a hard time
communicating with the newly found Amazons. Eventually a battle took
place between her and the Bana-Mighdallian's chief warrior or Shim'Tar.
Soon an enraged Olympian god Hermes, who was in love with Diana, took
vengeance on the desert Amazons for attacking his beloved, and the city
of Bana-Mighdall was destroyed. Homeless, the remaining Amazons
eventually took up with the witch Circe who was a nemesis of Wonder
Woman. It was agreed that in exchange for their servitude during the
events of the War of the Gods Circe would grant them immortality and a
new home to call their own. It was decided that since the
Themyscirian princess was the initial cause of their city being
destroyed, they would take over her Amazon city instead. Though only
fourteen years of age at this time, Artemis spoke before the Queen and
Council to protest the planned attack as she felt that Amazons must not
war against each other. Her cries were ignored and the attack was
undertaken.

Amazons united

During the attack on Themyscira, the witch Circe showed her true colors
and teleported the island into a dimension of demons in order for both
tribes to be destroyed. The two tribes put aside their rivalry
temporarily and fought the demons in order to ensure the Amazon
survival. Though only a few months passed in the real world, the time
the Amazons spent in the demon dimension lasted ten years. Discovering
that Circe had made her island home disappear, Wonder Woman forced her
to return it to its rightful place. Once this was done Wonder Woman
learned about the invasion, the demon war, and the Amazon truce. She
eventually met Artemis who was now in her mid-20s. The two got off to a
rocky start but Diana could see that Artemis' heart was true.

Wonder Woman

[Artemis as Wonder Woman and Diana in alternate costume. Illustration by
Mike Deodato.] Due to being in the demon dimension, Queen Hippolyta
began to see visions of the future. One of those visions included Wonder
Woman dying. Keeping this to herself, she called for a new Contest for
the title of Wonder Woman, claiming that she felt that Diana had proven
inadequate in the role despite Diana's insistence that the world outside
was more complicated than they had imagined. Initially excluding the new
Amazons, Queen Hippolyta submitted to a vote on the whole to include
them at Diana's behest. Through some mystical managing on Hippolyta's
part, Artemis eventually won the Contest and became the new Wonder
Woman. Hippolyta then declared to both tribes that she considered
Artemis her own daughter for winning the Contest, and during her entire
tenure as Wonder Woman Artemis wore Diana's tiara. As gifts to aid her
in her new mission, Artemis was given several magical objects. The
Gauntlet of Atlas which increased its wearer's strength by ten times,
The Sandals of Hermes which gave the gift of speed and flight, and
the golden Lasso of Truth which forced anyone tied by it to speak only
the truth.

Although Artemis tried diligently to distinguish herself from her
predecessor in both New York City and Boston, this proved to be rather
hard to do. Her approach to various situations were often seen as more
violent than beneficial. Because of this, and due to Man's World's
respect of Diana, Artemis often would receive the cold shoulder from
those she tried to help, extending even to her brief time in the Justice
League. Superman once commented to Diana that Batman refused to
allow Artemis to sit in Diana's chair during Justice League
meetings. Diana's twin sister Donna Troy even showed resentment
toward Artemis carrying the Wonder Woman title, which caused their first
meeting to escalate into a heated argument.

She later met a representative from a public relations company who
agreed to help Artemis with her public likeability. What Artemis was not
aware of was that the company, with the help of the White Magician, had
set up several battles for her with superhuman men. However, she
ultimately helped downtrodden groups such as immigrant workers and
abused women. Once she uncovered this truth she set about to prove
herself by single-handedly taking down Boston's biggest mob boss:
Julianna Sazia. Unable to capture Julianna, Artemis destroyed her army
of robots and Sazia's booby-trapped mansion. Later, Artemis' arrogance
gained the better of her, and she died in a battle with the White
Magician who gained extreme power while accidentally being transported
to hell. Thus, Queen Hippolyta's vision of Wonder Woman dying came
true (Although, ironically, Diana still died for a time shortly
after Artemis's death; Hippolyta had used a spell to slightly weaken
Diana during the contest and her weakened strength resulted in her
losing a crucial fight).

Requiem

[Artemis battles Diana as Requiem. Cover art by: Mike Deodato.] After
Artemis's death as Wonder Woman, her soul was sent to a form of hell.
While in the underworld Artemis became a figurative bride to one of the
thirteen ruling Princes of Hell named Dalkriig-Hath. As his bride
Artemis became part of Dalkriig-Hath's legion of demonic warriors.
Eventually Artemis was able to kill Dalkriig-Hath and regain access to
the world of the living. Wanting to separate herself from her former
title as Wonder Woman, Artemis used her skills learned in Tartarus to
her advantage and joined a group of demon hunting heroes called the
Hellenders. Based in Waverly, Pennsylvania she was assigned the codename
Javelin, which she quickly rejected for the name Requiem. Artemis
developed a romantic interest in fellow Hellender Sure-Shot, a master of
arsenal and projection weapons. This interest was dropped though when
she discovered that Sure-Shot's perceived self-assuredness was brought
on by psychotropic drugs which were meant to keep various Hellender
members fearless while battling the likes of demons and ghouls.

She also befriended a woman by the name of Henrietta Jessup, who went by
the codename Sojourner. Though Sojourner did not have any warrior skills
to speak of, Artemis stood by her friend and tutored her as a novice
Amazon. For unknown reasons Artemis left the Hellenders and aided Diana
in Gateway City as a fellow crime fighter. She also became close
friends with Cassie Sandsmark. Artemis' previous teacher/mentor
relationship with Sojourner was later expanded as Wonder Woman asked
Artemis to take Cassie on as a new pupil. It was with Artemis' Amazon
training lessons that Cassie was able to hone her skills in becoming the
new Wonder Girl. Later still, Artemis' teacher/mentor resume would
expand even more to even include the combat training of Supergirl.
It was during the initial meeting with Supergirl that Artemis would gain
her revenge against Batman for his hostile attitude towards her when she
attempted to join the Justice League. Artemis defeated Batman in
hand-to-hand combat, but was eventually subdued with one of Batman's
tranquilizer darts.

The underworld demon Belyllioth, who served as master over some of the
Myrmidon demons, later contacted Artemis to inform her of an unrest in
Tartarus. With the death of the demon Dalkriig-Hath, the remaining
twelve princes of Hell were battling for dominion over the dead demon's
realm. As Dalkriig-Hath's widow, Artemis was, by rights, next in line to
rule his region of Hades. Artemis ended the demonic war by presenting
herself before the twelve demon rulers to officially be granted her
former husband's station. After the blessing ceremony was given, Artemis
revealed that the blessing was actually given to Belyllioth, who was
magically disguised in Artemis's form. Angered by her deception, the
twelve princes of hell vowed vengeance against Artemis upon her return
to Hades. Fortunately for Artemis, her devoted friend Belyllioth (now
officially one of the thirteen rulers of Tartarus) has sworn her
allegiance and protection to the Amazon for eternity.

During John Byrne's time on the Wonder Woman comic, he insinuated that
Artemis previously had an affair with the New God Kanto. This fell
out of established history as no prior connection of Artemis or the
Amazons to Apokolips had been established until Darkseid's invasion of
Themyscira shortly after Artemis' death. Because of this the only other
time Artemis could have met Kanto would have been before the Banas
invaded Paradise Island, leaving Artemis to be between infancy to
fourteen years of age. Thus she would have been much too young to have
had a relationship with the grown adult. Artemis also admitted in the
Requiem series that she was still a virgin. further removing the
Kanto/Artemis romance plot.

Shim'Tar

After some time, Artemis returned to Themyscira to aid her Amazon
sisters in the uneasy living conditions they continued to work in due to
lingering animosities between the two tribes. Civil war eventually broke
out between the two groups of Amazons, leaving Artemis to take up the
title of her tribe's chief warrior, or Shim'Tar. She did this in the
hopes of ending the war and to guide both tribes to peaceful
negotiations. As Shim'Tar, Artemis battled Queen Hippolyta, who was
acting as the newest Wonder Woman. During their battle, Artemis reminded
Hippolyta that the Themyscirian queen was not given the armor of Wonder
Woman out of honor, but rather as a punishment for causing the death of
not only Artemis, but of her daughter Diana as well. Ultimately coming
to her senses, Hippolyta finally forgave the Amazons of Bana-Mighdall
for their previous transgressions, and joined her daughter Diana on the
battlefield. Together Queen Hippolyta and Princess Diana renounced their
crowns, leaving the island without a structured government in the hopes
of ending the needless slaughter brought on by the war. They were
successful, and Artemis and the Themyscirian General Philippus were
later voted to be co-rulers of the island. Philippus was given the title
of Chancellor and Archon Eponymous, whereas Artemis was given the title
of Polemarch. It is explained that Archon Eponymous equates to
the Civic Office of a Presidential title, whereas the position of
Polemarch translates to War Leader, similar to the position of
Commander-In-Chief.

[Artemis confronts the U.S. President over the U.S./Themyscira blockade.
Art by: Drew Johnson.] As co-ruler Artemis helped usher in a new age for
the Amazons by inviting outworlders to commune on Themyscira. This
included both Earth-bound peoples as well as alien races. Together
with her people, Artemis learned about advanced alien technology and new
battle skills. Unfortunately not all those contacted met the invitation
warmly. The U.S. government posted warships along the U.S./Themyscira
border. Later the American president, Jonathan Vincent Horne, called a
meeting with Artemis, Philippus and Diana. He had his White House Chief
of Staff, Mr. Ables, inform them that the U.S. government would ease the
blockade if the Amazons agreed to transfer blueprints on how to create
their own Purple Ray. The trio gave a firm "no" as an answer, telling
the President that they feared the U.S. government would use the Purple
Ray as a weapon. Because of this tensions between the two nations
remained.

Amazon disappearance

Through the machinations of an A.I. satellite called BROTHER EYE, a
military strike was made against Themyscira in an attempt at Amazon
genocide. A large swarm of OMAC units were sent to the island and began
to attack the Amazons as part of the events of Infinite Crisis.
Because of this, as well as the many previous attacks against the island
since Diana had become Wonder Woman, it was decided by Artemis and
Philippus that the entire island of Themyscira and all of its
inhabitants (sans Diana) would be transported to a hidden dimension via
the Olympian and Bana-Mighdallian goddesses. Artemis and the
remaining Amazons thrive in this dimension for a year's time in
peace.

The witch Circe later entered the Amazons' protected dimension and
revived Queen Hippolyta from death. Circe informed the Amazons that
Diana was being illegally detained by the U.S. government and tortured
until she gave them the secrets of the Purple Ray. Because of this, the
Amazons agreed to give Hippolyta her royal title back, and followed her
instructions to invade Washington, D.C. which brought about the events
of Amazons Attack. Artemis and Philippus were assigned to oversee the
battle, but soon lost faith in Hippolyta when they discovered some of
her actions against Man's World proved to be less honorable. Due to
their failure to follow-through in stopping Hippolyta during the war, a
disguised Granny Goodness cursed all of the Amazons by erasing their
memories and scattering them across the globe with false personas.
Under her false persona Artemis then is shown wearing civilian travel
clothes near the Great Wall of China.

With the return of the Olympian gods, Zeus revives the Amazon's memories
several months after their memory wipes and has them return to
Themyscira. Artemis is not shown to be part of the returning Amazons
though. Instead, Artemis is kidnapped during her memory loss period by
the slave leader Mr. Smyth. By the time her memory is returned to
her she finds herself shackled, drugged and placed in a copy of her
former Requiem costume. While she is his captive, Smyth drugs, tortures,
and attempts to brainwash Artemis, which she is able to resist through
force of will. She is freed by the sympathizing banshee villain
Jeannette. Artemis then learns that she and other Amazons of
Bana-Mighdall have been captured and sent to Smyth's Devil's Island by
the U.S. government due to the war crimes they committed against the
United States during the events of Amazons Attack. Despite this Artemis
convinces several members of the mercenary team Secret Six to aid her in
also freeing her fellow Amazons. After this is accomplished Smyth is
killed by a member of Secret Six before Artemis could exact her revenge
upon him.

Once freed, Artemis and the remaining Amazons gathered their dead and
were provided a magical transport back to Themyscira where they were
greeted by Hippolyta and Philippus. Upon return of the island
Artemis discovers the Amazons are now ruled by Achillies and the mad
Amazon Alkyone. She takes immediate issue with Themyscira's newly
structured monarchy. Artemis helps organize a party to dethrone
Alkyone and is surprised to discover that Achilles and his people are
more than willing to help in the coup. The coup is successful and a
new government structure is created for the island once again.


Powers and abilities

Artemis has peak human level strength, speed and reflexes. She is a
master hand-to-hand fighter combining many assimilated fighting
techniques and is a weapons expert in both the use and manufacturing of
weapons (favoring bow and arrows, but ranging from blades to automatic
weapons).

Artemis has eternal youth which was provided by the witch Circe.
This form of immortality does not provide resistance from harm or even
death. She possesses knowledge of low-level sorceries learned in the
Underworld including:

-   SELF-TRANSMOGRIFICATION, using the phrase "Punji Baal T'Alemi Dar
    Baharin" to change into another person/creature and then saying the
    spell backward to return to her true form. This requires a lot of
    one's life force energy.
-   SPELL REVERSAL, which she used to transform demonically transformed
    were-creatures back into their human forms.
-   DEMONIC SENSING, allowing her to know when a demon is masking their
    appearance as that of a human.

Weapons

While wearing the GAUNTLET OF ATLAS Artemis' strength is increased 10
times her normal level. Using the SANDALS OF HERMES Artemis
possesses the ability to fly and run at high speeds. The ARMOR OF
SHIM'TAR provides limited invulnerability and other unknown magical
traits.


Other versions

The Morrígan's Timeline

-   At one point in the comics an unrevealed god goes into the past and
    slaughters the majority of the world's Amazons, including Artemis.
    In this new timeline the trinity goddess The Morrígan revive Artemis
    from death, claiming her to be one of the Hysminai. The waters of
    the Underworld provided the following: Acheron cleased the pain of
    death, Cocytus aided lamentation, Phlegethon burned away all love,
    Lethe wiped all memories, and Styx filled her spirit with hate. She
    is then said to be an avatar to the dark goddess Alecto, and is sent
    by the goddesses to find the remaining Amazons and their princess in
    order to seek revenge for leaving her body on the battlefield.
    After several skirmishes, Diana is eventually able to remove the war
    goddesses' influence on Artemis by using the Lasso of Truth. Once
    this happens, Artemis resumes her place as one of Diana's
    Amazon subjects. She ultimately dies against her former goddesses
    defending Diana.

Flashpoint

-   In an alternate timeline referred to as Flashpoint, Artemis is the
    personal bodyguard for Hippolyta's sister Penthesileia. Penthesileia
    is upset by the upcoming wedding between Wonder Woman and Aquaman.
    She conspires with Aquaman's brother Ocean Master to stop it
    from happening. Penthesileia orders Artemis to disguise herself in
    Garth's armor in order to murder Wonder Woman on the wedding day.
    Hippolyta however stops the assassination from happening by blocking
    the attack. This ultimately kills Hippolyta in the process. Artemis
    is caught by Garth wearing his armor. She quickly defeats him and
    uses his unconscious body to frame him for the murder. Aquaman
    and the Atlanteans then visit Themyscira to negotiate for peace,
    while Artemis has bombs dropped on Themyscira. Later, Artemis joins
    the Amazons in conquering the United Kingdom, renaming it New
    Themyscira. During this same period, Artemis attempts to kill
    the resistance movement member Lois Lane. Although, Lois is
    rescued by Resistance member Britannia using the smoke grenades to
    escape, Britannia is seriously wounded by Artemis. Later, when
    Artemis and the Furies battle the Resistance, Artemis follows Lois
    and Britannia in Westminster's lair. She hits Britannia in the back
    with an arrow. When Lois prevents her attack, Artemis grabs her and
    attempts to kill her, but Britannia is able to reach her armour and
    kills Artemis by flying through her body, tearing it in half and
    saving Lois.


In other media

Television

-   Artemis briefly appeared on the PBS television series Independent
    Lens in the episode titled "Wonder Women! The Untold Story of
    American Superheroines" on Monday, April 15, 2013, hosted by actor
    Stanley Tucci.

Films

[Artemis depicted in the 2009 animated Wonder Woman film.]

-   Artemis appears in the March 2009 direct-to-video animated film
    Wonder Woman voiced by Rosario Dawson. This version of Artemis
    is depicted as a Themyscirian Amazon who fought beside Queen
    Hippolyta in ancient Greece. At one point Hippolyta states that
    Artemis was the fiercest Amazon warrior of that time. Once they are
    given immortal lives on Paradise Island, Artemis' warrior skills are
    surpassed by Hippolyta's daughter Diana. As an adult, Diana is able
    to continually defeat Artemis in sparring lessons, something Artemis
    is not happy about. When a contest is held to determine which Amazon
    is strong enough to escort Steve Trevor back to Man's World, Queen
    Hippolyta assigns Artemis to coordinate the event. No explanation is
    provided as to why Artemis does not participate in the
    Contest herself. Also, the Amazons of Bana-Mighdall are never
    mentioned in the film.
-   Artemis appears in the 2010 animated film Superman/Batman:
    Apocalypse with actress Rachel Quaintance providing the uncredited
    character's voice. In the film Artemis is shown sparring with
    Supergirl to better improve her hand-to-hand fighting skills. The
    training session is interrupted by Superman once the Amazon gets an
    upper hand, to which Artemis warns Superman not to lay a hand on
    her again. Artemis is shown again leading the Amazons in battle
    against an army of Doomsday beasts and shows appreciation toward
    Superman who saves her. In her final appearance Artemis is shown in
    the Amazon's battle arena showing attention as Supergirl makes her
    debut in her official red and blue caped costume.
-   Artemis appears in the 2013 animated film Justice League: The
    Flashpoint Paradox as a silent Amazon soldier for Wonder
    Woman's Army.

Video games

-   Artemis makes a cameo appearance as a non-playable character on the
    2008 game Mortal Kombat vs.  Universe.

Books

Mentions in written work:

-   Wonder Woman: Gods and Goddesses by John Byrne (September 1998)
    Prima Lifestyles
-   How to Draw Wonder Woman by John Delaney (September 1998) Walter
    Foster Publishing
-   Wonder Woman: The Life and Times of the Amazon Princess by Les
    Daniels (2001) Chronicle Books. Later re-issued as Wonder Woman:
    The Complete History in April 2004.
-   Wonder Woman: The Ultimate Guide to the Amazon Princess by Scott
    Beatty (November 2003) DK Publishing
-   The Ultimate Wonder Woman Sticker Book by Alastair Dougall
    (November 2003) DK Publishing
-   Wonder Woman by S. D. Perry and Britta Dennison (January 2009)
    Pocket Star Publishing
-   Unbound: A Devotional Anthology for Artemis by Bibliotheca
    Alexandrina (May 2009) CreateSpace
-   Wonder Woman: Amazon. Hero. Icon._ by Bob Greenberger. Foreword by
    George Pérez. (April 2010) Universe Books
-   The Essential Wonder Woman Encyclopedia by Phil Jimenez and John
    Wells (April 2010) Del Rey Books

Graphic novels

Artemis' stories are collected in several graphic novels:

-   TRINITY: Batman/Superman/Wonder Woman #1-3 by Matt Wagner
-   THE CONTEST: Wonder Woman (vol. 2) #90-93 & #0
-   THE CHALLENGE OF ARTEMIS: Wonder Woman (vol. 2) #94-100
-   REQUIEM: Artemis: Requiem #1-6
-   PARADISE LOST: Wonder Woman (vol. 2) #164-170 & Wonder Woman
    Secret Files #2
-   PARADISE FOUND: Wonder Woman (vol. 2) #171-177 & Wonder Woman
    Secret Files #3
-   DOWN TO EARTH: Wonder Woman (vol. 2) #195-200
-   BITTER RIVALS: Wonder Woman (vol. 2) #201-205
-   EYES OF THE GORGON: Wonder Woman (vol. 2) #206-213
-   LAND OF THE DEAD: Wonder Woman (vol. 2) #214-217 and The
    Flash (vol. 2) #219
-   SECRET SIX: DEPTH: "Secret Six" #8-14


Merchandise

Slot machine

-   Artemis appears in the CryptoLogic produced slot machine game
    Wonder Woman. The game debuted in December 2009 at
    InterCasino.com.

Toys

-   In 1999 Warner Bros. released the "Heroes of the  Universe" 1,000
    piece jigsaw puzzle designed exclusively for their Warner Bros.
    Studio Stores. The puzzle depicts a large array of 
    characters, including Artemis dressed in her green and white
    Requiem costume. Original retail price: $12.
-   On March 14, 2001  Direct released an action figure of Artemis as
    part of their "Amazons and Adversaries" line. She is depicted in a
    green and black uniform given to her during writer Eric Luke's time
    on the Wonder Woman comic book. The figure stands 6.25" tall and
    includes the accessories: a bow, quiver, and a sword.
-   In 2007 an Artemis figure was produced for the HeroClix line
    of toys. She is depicted in the Wonder Woman uniform while in
    mid-flight shooting her bow and arrow. The toy includes a
    collectible stats card, which tells a little more about Artemis'
    background and her power and ability levels.
-   In October 2008 Mattel released an Artemis variant action figure as
    part of their  Universe Classics line of toys. She is shown
    wearing her Wonder Woman costume complete with bow and arrows.
-   On November 10, 2010 a limited edition PVC Artemis statue was
    released by  Direct as part of their "Ame-Comi" line. The figure
    is a repaint of a previous Wonder Woman statue designed by Dustin
    Nguyen and sculpted by Jack Mathews. The statue stands 9.5 inches
    tall and is depicted wearing a modified version of the Wonder Woman
    costume but with green and silver coloring. She also comes with a
    sword, shield and stand. Original retail price: $60.
-   In 2010 the Tonner Doll Company, Inc. released a 13 inch tall
    limited edition vinyl Artemis doll at the New York Comic Con. The
    doll's run was limited to 200 pieces, with the remaining unsold
    dolls made available at the Tonner website. The doll was offered at
    $139.99 at the New York Comic Con and offered at $149.99 via the
    website.


Comic book inspiration

Artemis' name is an intentional reference to the syncretic
identification of the Greek Artemis with the Roman Diana. Editor Paul
Kupperberg characterized the two Wonder Women, Artemis and Diana, as
"two sides of the same coin." This is not the first time that that
naming device was used in Wonder Woman comics.

-   ARTEMIS, THE ANCIENT WONDER WOMAN seen in Wonder Woman (vol. 1) #
    298-302 (Dan Mishkin, writer) (Gene Colan,artist), was a predecessor
    & typology of Diana, set in ancient times. Artemis' remains were
    reanimated by Circe who sent her on a path to kill the daughter of
    Queen Hippolyta. In the battle Diana noted that the skeletal Artemis
    was as strong or stronger than she was and wearing all the symbols
    of an ancient Amazon warrior.

Artemis' appearance was influenced by two other comic book characters:

-   Wilats member ZEALOT, a Kherubim and a Coda warrior. Zealot is the
    immortal former Majestrix of the all female warriors called The Coda
    and helped develop their virtues and practices. After failing to
    follow her own rules under the Coda, she left their clan and they
    have hunted her since. Artemis's long hair flowing from a topknot
    evokes Zealot's appearance. Artist Mike Deodato has admitted to
    basing Artemis' appearance on that of Zealot.
-   The Amazon ORANA from Wonder Woman (vol. 1) #250-251 (December
    1978-January 1979). In this story, the Amazon Orana challenged Diana
    to a tournament to claim the title of Wonder Woman. She was
    successful, but her arrogance brought about her death shortly into
    her reign. Like Artemis, Orana was a fiery redheaded Amazon who died
    as Wonder Woman.

