ATLAS is the name of several fictional characters, comic book
superheroes and deities published by . Jack Kirby's Atlas
debuted in 1st Issue Special #1, (April 1975), and was created by Jack
Kirby.


Publication history

The very first Golden Age version of a character named Atlas in 
Comics occurred in Action Comics #121 (June 1948). The second
appearance of an Atlas was in Action Comics #320 (January 1965).
And the third appearance of an Atlas was in Action Comics #353 (August
1967).

The Jack Kirby Atlas' first and only appearance prior to Superman #677
was in 1st Issue Special #1. James Robinson brought Atlas back in
Superman #678. According to Robinson, Atlas is going to save humanity.
"The way I like to look at him is like in the  Universe, Namor is
a hero but he really skates the fine line between being a hero and a
villain, but he stays on the side of the hero. Atlas, skates that line
between hero and villain but he ultimately always falls on the villain
side." He continued to say that Atlas will become a major player in the
Superman mythos moving forward and there will be some real twists to the
character.

One of the earlier characters named Atlas re-appeared in Grant
Morrison's All-Star Superman, a version of Atlas appears in issue 3.
This Atlas is more closely based on the mythological figure of Atlas,
and competes with Superman and Samson to "win" Lois Lane, similar to the
story in Action Comics #320 from January 1965.


Fictional character biography

The Jack Kirby Atlas' family and people were slain by the raiders of
Hyssa the Lizard King. Atlas was raised by a wise and mysterious
traveller named Chagra. Because of an alien crystal carried by Atlas,
Chagra theorized that Atlas was one of the people of the Crystal
Mountain. Chagra agrees to help Atlas achieve his revenge, but only if
Atlas leads him to the Crystal Mountain. Atlas grew up to become a
protector of the innocent, but once King Hyssa was defeated, his
petulance and darker nature came to the forefront.

Atlas returns in Superman #677 as part of The Coming of Atlas
storyline and his origin is retold in issue #678 where he is seen saving
citizens of Metropolis he himself had endangered. He is currently
working with a secret government project that intends to kill Superman.
Atlas wants to defeat Superman and replace him as Metropolis' champion
on his way to conquer the modern world. He fights the Science Police and
Superman.

Atlas' return and fight with Superman was described as part of a ruse
intended to test Project 7734, a governmental project that utilizes
magic in an effort to kill Superman, who is vulnerable to magic. Atlas
continues to work for this project.

Atlas is later kidnapped and brainwashed into fighting the Justice
League by an unknown party. After being defeated by the team, Atlas
explains to Batman that he has no idea who captured him in the first
place.


Powers and abilities

Jack Kirby's Atlas has superhuman strength, agility and invulnerability
sufficient to fight Superman hand-to-hand.

According to his updated origin, Atlas' strength, agility and
invulnerability derive from the glowing alien crystal he took from the
Crystal Mountain. Originally he carried the crystal or wore it close to
his body, later Chagra found a way to have Atlas absorb the crystal into
his body, this process also caused Atlas to become unstuck in time.


Other versions

Kingdom Come

-   A character resembling Atlas appeared in Kingdom Come #2
    (May 1996). This version of Atlas, was included in the Kingdom Come
    card, wherein he is described as a "legendary demigod figure".


In other media

Film

-   Atlas appears in All-Star Superman voiced by Steven Blum.

