ATMOS is a fictional character in the future of the  Universe.
Atmos was the champion of the planet Xanthu, where the planetary
government provided him with a headquarters and training facility.


Fictional character biography

Original continuity

Atmos was the genetically-engineered champion of the planet Xanthu. When
the villain Universo enacted a plan to conquer his homeworld of Earth,
he had several of the United Planets' superheroes, including Atmos,
mindwiped and imprisoned on a distant planet. Also imprisoned were the
Legion of Super-Heroes members Saturn Girl, Brainiac 5, Chameleon Boy
and Dream Girl. Saturn Girl overcame Universo's hypnosis and eventually
the Legion members freed everybody.

During Atmos' absence from Xanthu, the planetary government ordered Star
Boy to resign from the Legion to replace him. Thereafter, Atmos used his
powers to enthrall and romance Star Boy's girlfriend Dream Girl. His
manipulation was eventually uncovered, and Dream Girl angrily left him.

"Five Years Later"

Many years later, Atmos was murdered by B.I.O.N., a Dominator-controlled
robotic enforcer developed from the Computo matrix created by Brainiac
5.

Post-Zero Hour

Marak Russen was a child star and famous athlete on his native planet of
Xanthu. He was subjected by his planet's government to numerous
experiments that turned him into a living nuclear power plant. Now
dubbed "Atmos", Russen joined his planet's state-funded team of
superheroes, the "Uncanny Amazers of Xanthu", a counterpart to the more
well known Legion of Super-Heroes. Together with the Amazers he stood
against two invasions of Xanthu: from the alien Blight, and from the
minions of the machine intelligence C.O.M.P.U.T.O. from the planet
Robotica.

Post-Infinite Crisis

The events of the Infinite Crisis miniseries have apparently restored
a close analogue of the Pre-Crisis on Infinite Earths Legion to
continuity, as seen in "The Lightning Saga" story arc in Justice League
of America and Justice Society of America, and in the "Superman and
the Legion of Super-Heroes" story arc in Action Comics. Since Atmos
was introduced after the publication of Crisis on Infinite Earths, it
is unclear if the character will be reintroduced.


Powers

Atmos has the powers of super-strength, flight, invulnerability and some
form of matter manipulation.

