AZRAEL is the name of two fictional characters in the 
universe. Azrael is a part of a group of assassins who were created by
The Sacred Order of Saint Dumas to "enforce God's Will". The name is
taken from the name for the traditional Angel of Death.


Publication history

The character first appeared in the series Batman: Sword of Azrael,
as Jean-Paul Valley, in 1992.

He then became a supporting character in the monthly Batman titles,
eventually taking over the role of Batman through the "Knightfall",
"Knightquest", and "KnightsEnd" story arcs. Writer/co-creator Denny
O'Neil admitted to difficulty with Azrael's transition from villain to
hero: "If I'd known he was to become a monthly character, I might have
set him up differently ... The problem is that I had to turn a bad guy
into a real hero, not just an anti-hero or lead. It's possible to do
that, but it's difficult to retain the original characterization. You
almost have to change his personality."

The subsequent Azrael series, chronicling Valley's battles against the
Order of St. Dumas, ran for 100 issues between 1995 and 2003. Starting
with issue #47, it was retitled Azrael: Agent of the Bat in an attempt
to boost sales by tying the series in with the rest of the Batman
mythos, including Azrael as part of the team of Batman, Robin, and the
new Batgirl (Cassandra Cain).

Michael Lane is the next Azrael introduced as part of the Battle for
the Cowl storyline in a three-issue mini-series written by Fabian
Nicieza.


Fictional character biography

Jean-Paul Valley

Jean-Paul Valley, a university graduate student of computer science in
Gotham City, is unaware that he is the latest in a line of
assassin-enforcers for "The Sacred Order of Saint Dumas", a sinister
religious secret society. For most of his life, he has been brainwashed
with The System, a deep level of psychological conditioning.

Valley only learns of this upon the death of his father, who was also
his predecessor, at which time his conditioning is activated and he is
called upon to take up the mantle of Azrael. When he is sent by the
Order to kill a weapons dealer, a rogue member of the Order who had
turned against the others and killed his father, he crosses paths with
Batman, also investigating the death of Valley's father. He works with
Alfred Pennyworth to find the weapons dealer after he has captured Bruce
Wayne, using the Batman costume to kill the other Order members. As
Valley works with Alfred, demonstrating a detective's intuition in
tracking Lehah's movements and later risking himself to rescue Bruce
despite his traditional mission of vengeance, he is shown the error of
his ways and decides to fight alongside Batman against the criminals of
Gotham, rejecting his "birthright" and seeking Batman's help in breaking
his conditioning to forge his own destiny.

His name is not revealed to Alfred and Bruce until the end of the story,
at which point he claims it was his father's name too. However a later
storyline in his solo series stated his father's name to be Ludovic
Valley.

Valley is given a job as a security guard at WayneTech headquarters, and
also becomes an apprentice crimefighter alongside Batman and Robin,
learning basic detective work.

[Detective Comics #667 (1993). Art by Kelley Jones.] Valley plays a
pivotal role in the "Knightfall" story arc (1993–1994), in which he
stands in as Batman after Bruce Wayne is defeated and paralyzed at the
hands of Bane. He decides that Bruce's tactics as Batman are obsolete
and believes that he must fight criminals on their terms which makes him
far more brutal and merciless, often even showing little regard for
innocent bystanders. Against Bruce Wayne's orders, Valley fights and
defeats Bane, wearing enhanced battle-armor he designed and built under
the influence of the System after he was narrowly defeated by Bane in
their first confrontation. His performance as Batman is influenced by
his Azrael conditioning. He grows increasingly violent and delusional,
allowing the mass murderer Abattoir to fall to his death, thereby also
allowing one of Abattoir's still-living hostages to die. Valley also
has control problems with Tim Drake's partnership, which climax when
Valley almost strangles him to death and bans him from the Batcave. He
seals off the Batcave from Wayne Manor and the Drake property, and
eschews working with Commissioner Gordon and the Gotham police. Valley
also suffers from continuous hallucinations of both his father and St.
Dumas who tell him that he is the real Batman and that he must avenge
his father's death.

Initially, Wayne is impressed enough with Valley's results to let him
remain as Batman, but when Drake tells Wayne of Abattoir's death, he
resolves to reclaim the Batman mantle. With his back repaired thanks to
the sacrifice of Doctor Shondra Kinsolving, and his fighting instincts
rehabilitated after lessons with Lady Shiva, Wayne goes after Valley to
reclaim his identity. After a prolonged battle, stretching from a
mobster's penthouse to Gotham Bridge before culminating in a final
showdown in the Batcave. Bruce tricks Valley into removing his armor,
excluding his helmet (with night-vision lenses engaged), and then
exposes him to bright sunlight - the shock snaps Valley out of his
delusional state. He apologizes and asks for his forgiveness, which
Bruce accepts, recognizing his own role in Valley's descent into madness
during his time as Batman, but tells him to leave immediately. Valley
subsequently departs Wayne Manor after acknowledging Bruce Wayne as the
true Batman.

Valley lives among the homeless population of Gotham for several weeks,
befriending an alcoholic former psychiatrist named Brian.

Valley is sought out by Bruce Wayne who feels responsible for his mental
breakdown after attaining and losing the mantle of Batman. Bruce grants
him a small fortune in money, information on the Order of St. Dumas'
whereabouts and resources to explore his origins. Along with Brian, he
discovers the evil conspiracies within the order of St. Dumas, and they
help a nun named Sister Lilhy escape. With the help of Ra's al Ghul he
discovers that he is a genetically engineered test tube baby, and his
genes have been spliced with those of animals.

He returns to Gotham for several crossover events, including Underworld
Unleashed, Contagion, Legacy, and Cataclysm. He also discovers that his
father's killer, Carlton LeHah, is still alive. Valley attempts to
regain Batman's trust after the events of KnightsEnd. Batman, who feels
responsible for Valley, especially after realizing that he gave him very
little training and support decides to give Azrael missions to carry out
to test him and prove himself. The first of these missions is to defeat
a resurfaced Bane, but it is not until Azrael saves the lives of a group
of U.S. senators (one of which tries to plead to congress for the funds
to rebuild Gotham City after its devastating earthquake) that Batman
begins to fully trust him again. Prior to those events, Batman sent
Azrael after Nicholas Scratch who was planning to kill another senator
who wanted the federal money to save Gotham City. While pursuing
Scratch, Azrael was framed for the senator's murder after he was
strangled to death moments before Azrael arrived to save him.

After being framed, Azrael is given a new costume designed by Batman and
uses it for a time, especially during the "No Man's Land" storyarc.
Azrael helps Batman maintain a chaotic Gotham City, often with the
assistance of the new Batgirl and protects Leslie Thompkins' medical
clinic inside of No Man's Land. After foiling Scratch's plan of framing
him for murder Azrael returns to his original costume and battles
supposed hallucinations that are supposed to represent both his father
and St. Dumas himself. Toward the end of the series, Azrael is plagued
by apparently supernatural occurrences in the form of possible miracles.

[Jean-Paul Valley's death was confirmed when he returned as a Black
Lantern.] Azrael is seemingly killed in the series' final issue, shot
with two specially-coated bullets while battling Scratch and LeHah.
Scratch was arrested, and LeHah falls into the river with Azrael.
However, Azrael's body is never recovered. His death went
unconfirmed for several years. In Booster Gold (vol. 2) #10, a note
can be seen written on time traveler Rip Hunter's chalk board reading
"Jean-Paul Valley Lives!". In the following issue, another note says
"Azrael comes and goes." Azrael appears in Blackest Night #4 (October
2009) as an undead member of the Black Lantern Corps; although at first
it had not been confirmed whether it was Jean-Paul Valley or another
Azrael (such as Ludovic Valley, who died in Gotham City). However, it
was later revealed, in the index section of the Blackest Night tabloid
vol.1, that it was in fact Jean-Paul.

Jean-Paul Valley makes a cameo at Batman's funeral service in Neil
Gaiman's 2009 story, Batman: Whatever Happened to the Caped Crusader?_,
he is seen stepping up to deliver his own version of Batman's death as a
background event, however his story is unseen and he has no lines. The
story is also metaphysical in nature, meaning that it didn't affect the
overall status of the canon or Azrael's fate.

The New 52

[Jean-Paul Valley as Azrael in the New 52.] In 2015, Jean-Paul Valley
reappeared as Azrael in an arc of Batman & Robin: Eternal. His design
was updated, with his main weapon being his sword rather than gauntlets.
His character, however, was essentially the same, working as an enforcer
for the Order of St. Dumas. In the comic, he defeated Bane and
eventually turned on his handler and the order to assist Red Hood and
Tim Drake. This marked the first proper appearance of a living Jean-Paul
Valley in the U in over a dozen years, with previous appearances
relegated to either minimal cameos or the aforementioned Black Lantern
revival of the character.

Michael Lane

In 2009, a mini-series titled Azrael: Death's Dark Knight was
produced as a tie-in to the Battle for the Cowl crossover event, with a
later regular series.

The new Azrael is the Third "Ghost of Batman" to undergo Doctor Hurt's
experiments; an ex-cop named MICHAEL WASHINGTON LANE. He is approached
by the Order of Purity to reclaim the mantle of Azrael after the Order's
latest Azrael went mad and killed an undercover police officer. On his
first night as Azrael he fights Talia al Ghul with her team of
mercenaries led by Merlyn and later encounters Nightwing. After
convincing Nightwing that he was not responsible for the murdered police
officer, Nightwing persuades Talia to allow Michael to keep the Suit of
Sorrows. In Batman And The Outsiders (vol. 2) #14, the character is
displayed as a charming man who undergoes various purification rituals,
overseen by the Order of Purity.

Ra's al Ghul later attempts to manipulate Lane into destroying Gotham by
having him commit suicide and be subsequently resurrected by the Suit,
which was dipped in a Lazarus Pit. Lane worked with metahuman Crusader
to 'judge' Batman, Catwoman and Red Robin for their past 'sins'-
including the insane obsession of Selina's sister that Selina is
'possessed', Robin not showing due reverence when he destroyed a church
window to save hostages, and a childhood incident where Dick let another
circus performer get assaulted because he was jealous- and to determine
if Gotham should be saved. Although Lane is manipulated into perceiving
the Bat-Family as having failed his tests, Batman convinces Lane to use
his swords to test himself, revealing Ra's' plan in time for Lane to
stop the planned destruction of new metahuman Fireball. Ra's' intended
for Azrael to detonate Fireball and make it appear as though Gotham had
been destroyed by terrorists, inciting a wave of violence that would
cleanse Earth and allow Ra's to take control.

The New 52

Michael Lane has appeared in the New 52 (a reboot of the 
universe). Michael Lane was originally featured in Batwoman issue #2
as a cameo, which was written before the relaunch but published after,
however the art was edited in order to remove him. Regardless,
Michael Lane appeared in issue #10 of Batman, Inc. His absence from
Batman's organization is explained by his choosing seclusion and daily
prayer as a way of repenting for all that he did as a tool of Ra's Al
Ghul and Doctor Hurt, believing himself to hold an important role in the
apocalypse.


Powers and abilities

In addition to Azrael's enhanced strength and speed he also possesses
enhanced agility, reflexes, durability and stamina. He has been shown to
be able to still fight at heightened levels even when fatigued. This
fact is exemplified when Azrael was able to defeat Bane when he was
suffering from both extreme exhaustion and Venom withdrawal. He has
also been shown to be able to resist an even more potent version of the
Venom drug, having been able to break its vast addiction in only one
night. Azrael is also a superior fighter. Although he lacks technique
and style in his fighting moves he makes up for it with his speed,
reflexes and agility. Azrael has been able to match Deathstroke in a
sword duel and has even defeated Batman in hand-to-hand combat.

Azrael is also an expert with computers. When he was first introduced in
Batman: Sword of Azrael #1, it was revealed that Jean-Paul was
studying computer programming in college and during Knightquest he
frequently dealt with Tim Drake's (then newly appointed as Robin)
attempts to hack the Batcave's computer system successfully, once
stating that Tim was overconfident in his abilities and that a far more
experienced hacker now inhabited the cave.

Equipment

Azrael's original costume consists of special red and gold armor. After
becoming an "Agent of the Bat", he dons silver and black armor with a
red cape and a stylized red bat symbol on the chest. Later on, he dons
red armor with golden gauntlets, boots, shoulder pads and a blue cape.
He sometimes carries a flaming sword, and also uses two retractable
daggers hidden in the gauntlets of his costume. On page 71 of the
updated edition of Batman: The Ultimate Guide to the Dark Knight,
Scott Beatty implied that Azrael's changing costumes were reflections of
the changes in Azrael's life from an agent of St. Dumas to an agent of
the Batman to his own man. The gauntlets were taken by Kate Spencer,
the current Manhunter, and are used in her outfit.


Other versions

[The variation of Jean-Paul's suit seen in The Multiveristy: The
Just.] Valley and Lane are not the only bearers of the name Azrael in
the  Universe:

-   Valley's father (Jean-Paul/Ludovic Valley) was the previous Azrael,
    as seen in Batman: Sword of Azrael (referenced by his son as
    having the same name) and, with more detail, in Azrael Annual #1
    (identified as just Ludovic Valley).
-   A Chinese man, supposedly given the same training as Valley and an
    identical costume, is briefly under the control of the Order. Also,
    the position of the Order of St. Dumas' enforcer has been passed on
    since medieval times.
-   Earlier on in the Azrael series, another man is supposedly
    selected and trained in the same way as Valley and the Chinese
    Azrael to be Valley's replacement. He is defeated by Valley and
    supposedly falls to his death only to resurface in Gotham at one
    point wearing one of Valley's 'Batman' armors and engaging in
    underground fights.
-   There was a character Azrael who was briefly associated with the
    Teen Titans and who is otherwise unrelated to the character
    introduced in the Batman comics.
-   In The Multiversity: The Just, which takes place on the alternate
    Earth-16 where the grown sidekicks and children of superheroes live
    on an Earth free of crime due to the efforts of their parents years
    earlier, Damian Wayne, the new Batman has a variation of Jean Paul's
    Azrael suit in a glass display in the Batcave.


In other media

Television

Azrael will make his debut in the Gotham episode "Azrael". As the
Warrior of Vengeance for the Order of St. Dumas, the Azrael title is
passed down from successor to successor.

Video games

-   Azrael is a character that can be officially created after obtaining
    all the mini-kits for the hero chapters of the game in Lego Batman:
    The Videogame in the character customization feature. The Nintendo
    DS version also features him and can be unlocked and made available
    to purchase after all the levels have been completed and True Hero
    has been achieved on all of them.

-   Azrael appears in Lego Batman 2:  Super Heroes.

-   Jean-Paul Valley Azrael, Michael Lane Azrael and Azrael Batman are
    all playable characters in Scribblenauts Unmasked: A 
    Adventure.

Arkham Series

The Michael Lane incarnation of Azrael appears in the Batman Arkham
series, where he is voiced by Khary Payton:

-   Azrael first appears in Batman: Arkham City. This version's armor
    is an amalgamation of Jean-Paul Valley's and Michael Lane's, as he
    has the former's wrist-mounted flaming blades and the latter's
    crusader-esque look. At the beginning of the game, Azrael is seen
    watching Bruce Wayne's arrival in Arkham City from a rooftop.
    Throughout the game, Azrael can be seen stalking Batman at
    various locations. If Batman throws a batarang at him, Azrael will
    catch it and leave a symbol on the floor before disappearing. After
    doing this multiple times, Batman combines the symbols left by
    Azrael to form a map leading to Gotham's church. Upon Batman's
    arrival, Azrael appears and reveals that he is a member of the Order
    of St. Dumas. Azrael speaks of a prophecy, stating that Batman
    will be the one to close the Gates of Hell, but from the ashes of
    Arkham, the fires will rage and Gotham will burn, taking Batman
    with it. After delivering this message, Azrael leaves and tells
    Batman that they will meet again.

-   The PlayStation 3 edition of Batman: Arkham Origins features the
    Knightfall DLC pack containing an alternate Batman outfit based on
    Jean-Paul Valley's Batsuit as well as challenge maps based on
    Batman: Knightfall.

-   Azrael returns in Batman: Arkham Knight, where his outfit is now
    primarily white with red patches. He is the main character behind
    the "Heir to the Cowl" side quest. During Scarecrow's takeover of
    Gotham, the Order of St. Dumas sends Azrael to Gotham on a mission
    to become Batman's successor. After Azrael is put through several
    trials, Batman eventually discovers his secret identity of Michael
    Lane, a former police officer who was dismissed due to psychological
    issues who apparently disappeared for years without a trace. It is
    later revealed that the Order had planted a microchip in Lane's
    brain that subtly controlled his actions. After Batman uncovers a
    secret message, he discovers Azrael's true intentions of
    killing him. After confronting Batman at his clock tower, Azrael is
    given two options by the player:
    -   Attempt to kill Batman with the "Sword of Sin", only to be
        subdued and incarcerated at the Gotham City Police Department
        with the other villains, where Lane vows to escape and end the
        Dark Knight. During this time, Azrael will argue with Deacon
        Blackfire over who is the true champion of God.
    -   Resist the order to kill Batman, then break the "Sword of Sin"
        before leaving the clock tower to get revenge on the Order
        of St. Dumas. Batman declares that Azrael has made the
        right choice.


Collected Editions

-   Batman: Contagion (Azrael #15)
-   Batman: No Man's Land Vol. 1 (Azrael: Agent of the Bat #51-55)
-   Batman: No Man's Land Vol. 2 (Azrael: Agent of the Bat #56)
-   Batman: No Man's Land Vol. 3 (Azrael: Agent of the Bat #58)
-   Batman: No Man's Land Vol. 4 (Azrael: Agent of the Bat #59-61)
-   Batman: Sword of Azrael (#1-#4)  - ISBN 1-56389-100-X
-   Knightfall
-   Azrael: Angel in the Dark (Azrael vol2 #1-#6)  - ISBN
    978-1-4012-2874-3
-   Batman: Gotham Shall Be Judged (Azrael vol2 #14-#18)  - ISBN
    978-1-4012-3378-5
-   Azrael: Death's Dark Knight (#1-#3)
-   Azrael vol. 1: Fallen Angel (Batman: Sword of Azrael #1-4,
    Showcase '94 #10, Azrael vol 1 #1-7)

