BABY WILDEBEEST is a fictional character in  publications.


Publication history

Baby Wildebeest was introduced in New Teen Titans vol. 2 #85 (April
1992), and was created by Marv Wolfman and Tom Grummett.


Fictional character biography

The Wildebeest Society experimented with genetically-created host bodies
to house the tainted souls of Azarath. The Baby Wildebeest was their
only successful experiment, before the organization was destroyed by the
New Titans. Taking care of the infant creature, the Titans soon realized
that it could transform to a grown-up Wildebeest, and let him join the
team. Much to Pantha's annoyance, 'Baby' has always regarded her as his
mother. Although the size of a human toddler, he had
disproportionately powerful strength. He later demonstrated the ability
to gain adult form to protect his "Momma". Pantha originally didn't like
the creature, often talking about various ways Baby could or would die.
Her attitude softened as Wildebeest stayed with the team.

During a Titans vacation to California, Baby Wildebeest and the other
Titans had time to visit the beach. While the others were distracted, he
built a gigantic sanastle, with intricate shapes and molding,
resembling a cathedral.

After the New Titans disbanded, Pantha took Baby Wildebeest with her and
later, along with former Titan Red Star, the three formed an unusual
family unit. The three resided in Solar City in Russia, where Pantha and
Red Star raise Baby Wildebeest as their son.

Baby Wildebeest would participate in the battle to save his old friend
Cyborg, whose magnified power levels threatened the entire Earth. A
series of misunderstandings led to the Titans' allies attacking the JLA.
Baby Wildebeest was knocked out by Superman.

During the Infinite Crisis storyline, Superboy-Prime was confronted by
a team of Titans (including Wildebeest and Pantha) on a highway outside
of Keystone City. A mentally-ill Superboy-Prime kills Pantha with a blow
to the head. Baby Wildebeest attacks and is killed instantly by a heat
vision blast through his torso. Red Star survives the battle to mourn
his family.

Baby Wildebeest has returned as a Black Lantern in the Blackest Night
crossover. He has been seen with Aqualad, Aquagirl, Dolphin, and
Pantha.


Powers and abilities

Baby Wildebeest had incredible strength, stamina, and enhanced
durability. When provoked, it became a twelve-foot powerhouse, and is
strong enough to take blows from Superman himself.


In other media

Television

-   Wildebeest appears in the Teen Titans cartoon. His vocal effects
    are provided by Jim Cummings in the first appearance and by Dee
    Bradley Baker in later appearances.
    -   In "Winner Take All," Wildebeest was called upon by the Master
        of Games to participate in the Tournament of Champions.
        Wildebeest beat Beast Boy in the first round but lost to Speedy
        and Robin in the second. After Robin defeated the Master of
        Games, Wildebeest was rescued and considered an honorary Titan.
    -   In "Trust," Wildebeest was pursued and captured by Madame Rouge.
    -   In "Calling All Titans," Wildebeest was shown to have been
        flash-frozen by the Brotherhood of Evil alongside Hot Spot.
    -   In "Titans Together," Wildebeest is among the young superheroes
        that were freed from their frozen prison. He and Hot Spot engage
        Madame Rouge in battle. They throw her onto a conveyor belt
        after Jinx makes "bad luck" for her by sinking her feet in the
        ground, preventing her from getting away.

Miscellaneous

In Teen Titans Go!_ #16 titled "Beauty & the Wildebeest", it was
revealed that Wildebeest was actually a human toddler eventually causing
Cyborg to laugh at Beast Boy for losing to a kid in the Tournament of
Heroes. However, it would seem that he usually only assumes "Wildebeest"
form when agitated.

