BALLISTIC is a fictional superhero published by . He first
appeared in Batman Annual #17 (1993), and was created by Doug Moench
and Michael Manley.


Publication history

Ballistic first appeared in Batman Annual # 17 as a part of the
Bloodlines event. He, along with most other Bloodline characters, never
really caught on with readers and was relegated to occasional guest
appearances and cameos.


Fictional character biography

Kelvin Mao is a Korean-American member of the Gotham City Police
Department Tactical Unit. This unit is sent to face Angon, who was
committing murders throughout the city. The entire squad is killed
except Mao, who is bitten by Angon and receives massive injuries. Mao is
placed in a body-cast at the hospital; this lasts until the alien's bite
mutated him; a rare occurrence for bite victims. The alien's bite
activates Mao's metagene and he is transformed into a large man with
armored skin, superstrength, night vision, and super-hearing. He leaves
the hospital and equips himself with munitions, anticipating another
meeting with Angon. Ballistic teams with Batman (Jean Paul Valley) to
drive Angon out of the city. A short time later, Ballistic joins with
several other "New Bloods" to defeat all the spine-sucking aliens.

Ballistic next became a member of the superhero reality show, The Blood
Pack, a group filled with many New Bloods. He helps the team beat the
Quorum but the team disbands shortly after. Kelvin then spends some time
on his own as a vigilante, occasionally aiding Batman, but soon
found another team. Cave Carson's Forgotten Heroes came calling and
Ballistic joins them for a mission aiding Resurrection Man. It seems
Ballistic left the Forgotten Heroes after this mission. After that he
decides to try the lone vigilante act once again. Later, Mao was tossed
out of Guy Gardner's bar, Warrior's, for throwing his weight around.

Infinite Crisis

Ballistic joins with dozens of other superheroes and civillains to
defend Metropolis. from attack by the 'Secret Society of Supervillains'.
Ballistic teams with several other former members of the Blood Pack to
tackle Solomon Grundy. While fighting Grundy, Ballistic, and the other
members of the Blood Pack present, along with that incarnation of
Grundy, are killed in a blast of heat-vision from the insane
Superboy-Prime.

Blackest Night

In Adventure Comics (Vol. 2) #4, the Bloodpack members killed by
Superboy-Prime are reanimated as members of the Black Lantern Corps.
Superboy-Prime destroyed Ballistic on Earth Prime, using the black ring
cycling through the power set of the resulting in a burst of colored
energy that destroys Black Lanterns.


Powers and abilities

After receiving a bite from the alien Angon, Ballistic is mutated into a
large monster of a man. He gains superstrength, red-armored skin, night
vision, and super-hearing. In addition, Mao was trained in tactical
operations and is an excellent marksman and combatant.

