BARBARA GORDON is a fictional superheroine appearing in American comic
books published by  and related media. The character was
created by William Dozier, Julius Schwartz, and Carmine Infantino. At
the request of the producers of the 1960s Batman television series, 
editor Schwartz called for a new female counterpart to the superhero
Batman that could be introduced into publication and the third season of
the show simultaneously. The character subsequently made her first comic
book appearance as BATGIRL in Detective Comics No. 359, titled "The
Million Dollar Debut of Batgirl!" (1967), by writer Gardner Fox and
artist Carmine Infantino. Written as the daughter of Gotham City
police commissioner James Gordon, her civilian identity is given a
doctorate in library science and she is employed as head of Gotham City
Public Library, as well as later being elected to the United States
Congress.

In addition to appearing in other  publications, she receives her
first starring role in Batman Family which debuted in 1975, partnered
with the original Robin, Dick Grayson. In 1988, following the editorial
retirement of the character's Batgirl persona in Barbara Kesel's
Batgirl Special No. 1, Alan Moore's graphic novel Batman: The Killing
Joke depicts the Joker shooting her through the spinal cord in her
civilian identity, resulting in paraplegia. In subsequent stories,
editor Kim Yale and writer John Ostrander establish the character as a
computer expert and information broker known as ORACLE. Providing
intelligence and computer hacking services to assist other superheroes,
she makes her first appearance as Oracle in Suicide Squad No. 23
(1989). She is featured in the one-shot comic Black Canary/Oracle:
Birds of Prey (1996) written by Chuck Dixon, which later became the
monthly title Birds of Prey starring both characters. The series
depicts her as a great intellect uninhibited by her paralysis, skilled
in the martial art of eskrima. Employing Black Canary as her partner and
field agent, Oracle later operates as the leader of a full team of
female crimefighters who engage in global espionage missions, under
writer Gail Simone. In 2011, following a company wide relaunch of all 
Comics titles, the character's mobility is restored and she is given a
starring role in the eponymous Batgirl monthly comic, as well as
Birds of Prey, as part of The New 52.

Barbara Gordon is described as one of the most popular characters to
appear during the Silver Age of Comic Books and is also regarded as a
pop icon due to her appearances in the Batman television series and
continued media exposure. She has achieved similar popularity in the
Modern Age of Comic Books under the Birds of Prey publication and as a
disability icon. The character has been the subject of academic analysis
concerning the roles of women, librarians and people living with
disabilities in mainstream media. The events of The Killing Joke,
which led to the character's paralysis, as well as the restoration of
her mobility, has been a subject of debate among comic book writers,
artists, editors and readership. Viewpoints range from sexism in comic
books, to the limited visibility of disabled characters and the
practicality of disabled characters existing in a fictional universe
where magic, technology, and medical science exceed the limitations of
the real world. Barbara Gordon, as both Batgirl and Oracle, has been
adapted into various media relating to the Batman franchise, including
television, film, animation, video games, and other merchandise. In
2011, she was ranked 17th in both Comics Buyer's Guide's "100 Sexiest
Women in Comics" and IGN's "Top 100 Comic Books Heroes".


Publication history

Detective Comics, Batman Family and other appearances (1967–1988)

["The Million Dollar Debut of Batgirl". Cover by Carmine Infantino &
Murphy Anderson.] Prior to the introduction of Barbara Gordon, the
Batwoman character and her side-kick Bat-Girl appeared in Batman-related
publications, but were eventually removed at the direction of editor
Julius Schwartz for being outdated and unrealistic. Schwartz stated that
he had been asked to develop a new female character in order to attract
a female viewership to the Batman television series of the 1960s.
Executive producer William Dozier suggested that the new character would
be the daughter of Gotham City's Police Commissioner James Gordon, and
that she would adopt the identity of Batgirl. When Dozier and
producer Howie Horowitz saw rough concept artwork of the new Batgirl by
artist Carmine Infantino during a visit to  offices, they optioned the
character in a bid to help sell a third season to the ABC television
network. Infantino reflected on the creation of Batgirl, stating "Bob
Kane had had a Bat-Girl for about three stories in the ’50s but she had
nothing to do with a bat. She was like a pesky girl version of Robin. I
knew we could do a lot better, so Julie and I came up with the real
Batgirl, who was so popular she almost got her own TV show." Yvonne
Craig portrayed the character in the show's third season. Barbara
Gordon and alter ego Batgirl debuted in Detective Comics No. 359, "The
Million Dollar Debut of Batgirl" (1967), as the daughter of Gotham
City's Police Commissioner James Gordon. In the debut story, while
driving to a costume ball dressed as a female version of Batman, Barbara
Gordon intervenes in a kidnapping attempt on Bruce Wayne by the super
villain Killer Moth, attracting Batman's attention and leading to a
crime-fighting career. Although Batman insists she give up
crime-fighting because of her gender, Batgirl disregards his
objections.

In her civilian identity, Barbara Gordon, Ph.D., is depicted as a career
woman with a doctorate in library science, as well as being head of
Gotham City public library, "presumably one of the largest public
libraries in the  version of reality." She was given a
regular backup slot in Detective Comics starting with issue #384
(February 1969), alternating issues with Robin until issue #404, after
which she had the backup slot to herself. Frank Robbins wrote nearly all
of these backups, which were penciled first by Gil Kane and later by Don
Heck. Barbara Gordon’s Batgirl exceeded the earlier Bat-Girl and
Batwoman characters in popularity, and readers requested for her to
appear in other titles. Although some readers requested that Batwoman
also continue to appear in publication,  responded to the fan-based
acclaim and criticism of the new character in an open letter in
Detective Comics No. 417 (1971), stating: "I'd like to say a few
words about the reaction some readers have to Batgirl. These are readers
who remember Batwoman and the other Bat-girls from years back ... They
were there because romance seemed to be needed in Batman's life. But
thanks to the big change and a foresighted editor, these hapless females
are gone for good. In their place stands a girl who is a capable
crime-fighter, a far cry from Batwoman who constantly had to be rescued
[by] Batman."

Batgirl continues to appear in  publications throughout the
late 1960s and 1970s, as a supporting character in Detective Comics,
in addition to guest appearances in various titles such as Justice
League of America, World's Finest Comics, The Brave and the
Bold, Action Comics, and Superman. In the mid-1970s,
Batgirl reveals her secret identity to her father (who had already
discovered it on his own), and serves as a member of the United States
House of Representatives. She moves to Washington, D.C., intending to
give up her career as Batgirl and in June 1972, appeared in a story
entitled "Batgirl's Last Case." Julius Schwartz brought her back a
year later in Superman No. 268 (1973), in which she has a blind
date with Clark Kent, establishing their friendship, and fights
alongside Superman. Batgirl and Superman team up twice more, in
Superman No. 279 and  Presents #19. Batgirl also
guest-starred in other Superman related titles such as No. 453 of
Adventure Comics, and in Superman Family No. 171, where she teams
with Supergirl. The character is given a starring role in 's Batman
Family comic book which debuted in 1975. The original Robin Dick
Grayson became her partner in the series and the two were frequently
referred to as the "Dynamite Duo: Batgirl & Robin." Batgirl meets
Batwoman in Batman Family No. 10, when the retired superhero briefly
returns to crime-fighting (before Kane is murdered by the Bronze Tiger).
The two fight Killer Moth and Cavalier, and learn each other's secret
identities. Batwoman retires once again at the conclusion of the story,
leaving Batgirl to continue crime-fighting. Although this series
ended after three years of publication, Batgirl continued to appear
in back up stories published in Detective Comics through issue No. 519
(October 1982).

Crisis on Infinite Earths, a limited miniseries published in 1985, was
written in order to reduce the complex history of  to a single
continuity. Although Batgirl is a featured character, her role is
relatively small—she delivers Supergirl's eulogy in issue seven of the
12-part series. The conclusion of Crisis on Infinite Earths
changed  Universe continuity in many ways. Following the reboot,
Barbara Gordon is born to Roger and Thelma Gordon, and she is Jim
Gordon's niece/adopted daughter in current canon. Post-Crisis,
Supergirl does not arrive on Earth until after Gordon has established
herself as Oracle; many adventures she shared with Batgirl are
retroactively described as having been experienced by Power Girl. In
Secret Origins #20: Batgirl and the Golden Age Dr. Mid-Nite
(1987), Barbara Gordon's origin is rebooted by author Barbara
Randal. Within the storyline, Gordon recounts the series of events that
led to her career as Batgirl, including her first encounter with Batman
as a child, studying martial arts under the tutelage of a sensei,
memorizing maps and blue prints of the city, excelling in academics in
order to skip grades, and pushing herself to become a star athlete.

Batgirl Special and Batman: The Killing Joke (1988)

[The Joker paralyzes Barbara Gordon in Batman: The Killing Joke.]

 officially retired the hero in the one-shot comic Batgirl Special
No. 1 (July 1988), written by Barbara Kesel.

Later that year, Barbara Gordon appeared in Alan Moore's Batman: The
Killing Joke. In this graphic novel, the Joker shoots and paralyzes
Barbara in an attempt to drive her father insane, thereby proving to
Batman that anyone can be morally compromised. Although events in The
Killing Joke exert a great impact on the character, the story has
little to do with her. She is employed as a plot device to cement
the Joker’s vendetta against Commissioner Gordon and Batman. In 2006,
during an interview with Wizard, Moore expressed regret over his
treatment of the character calling it "shallow and ill-conceived."
He stated prior to writing the graphic novel, "I asked  if they had
any problem with me crippling Barbara Gordon—who was Batgirl at the
time—and if I remember, I spoke to Len Wein, who was our editor on the
project", and following a discussion with then-Executive Editorial
Director Dick Giordano, "Len got back onto the phone and said, ‘Yeah,
okay, cripple the bitch.'" Although there has been speculation as to
whether or not editors at  specifically intended to have the
character's paralysis become permanent, Brian Cronin, author of Was
Superman A Spy?: And Other Comic Book Legends Revealed (2009) noted
that  had hired Barbara Kesel to write the Batgirl Special
specifically to retire the character and set her in place for The
Killing Joke.

Following the release of the graphic novel, comic book editor and writer
Kim Yale discussed how distasteful she found the treatment of Barbara
Gordon with her husband, fellow comic writer John Ostrander. Rather than
allow the character to fall into obscurity, the two decided to revive
her as a character living with a disability.

Gail Simone would include the character's paralysis in a list of "major
female characters that had been killed, mutilated, and depowered",
dubbing the phenomenon "Women in Refrigerators" in reference to a 1994
Green Lantern story where the title character discovers his
girlfriend's mutilated body in his refrigerator.

Suicide Squad, Birds of Prey and other appearances (1989–2011)

Yale and Ostrander oversaw the development of Barbara Gordon's new
persona as Oracle for the next several years. The character made her
first comic book appearance as Oracle in Suicide Squad No. 23,
anonymously offering her services to the government's Task Force
X. In the following two years, Oracle, under pen of Ostrander
and Yale, made guest appearances in various  titles until her identity
was revealed to be Barbara Gordon in Suicide Squad No. 38 (1990) and
she officially becomes a member of the Squad in issue No. 48 following
an invitation from Amanda Waller. In 1992, Dennis O’Neil wrote Oracle as
Batman’s sole source of information in Batman: Sword of Azrael #1.
This newly forged partnership established Oracle’s status as Batman's
intellectual equal. She is subsequently featured in the 12-issue
miniseries The Hacker Files (1993). In "Oracle: Year One"—a story
arc contained in The Batman Chronicles No. 5 (1996)—Yale and Ostrander
tell the origin of Barbara Gordon's new persona as Oracle. Initially,
Gordon's paralysis plunges her into a state of reactive depression.
However, she soon realizes that her aptitude for and training in
information sciences have provided her with tremendous skills that could
be deployed to fight crime. In a world increasingly centered on
technology and information, she possesses a genius-level intellect;
photographic memory; deep knowledge of computers and electronics; expert
skills as a hacker; and graduate training in library sciences. One
night, she has a dream in which an all-knowing woman (similar to Oracle
at Delphi of Greek mythology) has her own face; it's then that she
adopts "Oracle" as her codename. She serves as an information broker,
gathering and disseminating intelligence to law enforcement
organizations and members of the superhero community. She trains under
the tutelage of Richard Dragon, one of 's premiere martial artists, to
engage in combat (using eskrima) from her wheelchair. She develops her
upper-body strength and targeting skills with both firearms and
batarangs.

The success of Chuck Dixon’s Black Canary/Oracle: Birds of Prey (1996)
led to the comic series Birds of Prey starring the two title
characters. During Chuck Dixon's crossover series Nightwing: Hunt
for Oracle, Barbara Gordon and Dinah Lance meet in person and
establish a long-term friendship. They form the nucleus of the Birds of
Prey organization. While Oracle serves as the basic head of operations,
Black Canary becomes her full-time employee and field agent. In 2000,
the first Batgirl monthly comic was launched with Cassandra Cain as
the title character. Oracle appears as a supporting character throughout
the series, acting as a mentor to the new Batgirl, alongside Batman.
Gail Simone took over as writer of Birds of Prey with issue No. 56,
taking the series in a "Bold New Direction!_" In an interview, Simone
explained her fondness for Barbara Gordon stating: "Kim Yale and John
Ostrander picked up the character and made her into a brilliant master
computer operator and one of the most fascinating characters in comics.
From there, Chuck Dixon did wonderful things with her in his Birds of
Prey run ... She’s fantastic because even just sitting in a chair in a
dark room by herself, she’s tremendously compelling. The U without her
would be a much less interesting place." Simone integrates the
Huntress into the comic, making her a central character in the series as
Oracle's secondary field agent. In 2003, comic book authors Scott Beatty
and Chuck Dixon revised Barbara Gordon’s origin with the miniseries
Batgirl: Year One. Gordon is a highly gifted child having
graduated from high school early, but initially desires to join law
enforcement as opposed to vigilantism in the previous origin myths.

[Oracle infected with the Brainiac virus. Art by Adriana Melo.] During
the 2004 crossover event Batman: War Games, Black Mask commandeers
Oracle's computers and satellites and engages in a fight to the death
with Batman. In order to prevent Batman from killing his adversary,
Oracle initiates the Clock Tower's self-destruct sequence, provoking
Batman to rescue her rather than continue the battle. This results in
the destruction of Gordon's home and headquarters in the clock tower.
Subsequently, Oracle decides to move on, and leaves Gotham City
altogether. She cuts her ties with Batman, and after a temporary world
trip with her team, relocates to Metropolis. In the events comprising
Gail Simone's Birds of Prey: Between Dark and Dawn (2005), and
Birds of Prey: The Battle Within (2005), Oracle is possessed by
arch-villain Brainiac, an artificial intelligence entity, in order to
become a biological being. Although Oracle overpowers Brainiac and
expels him from her body, the advanced virus delivered by him remains
despite his absence. The virus steadily causes cybernetic attachments to
sprout all over her body. Oracle develops supernatural abilities that
allow her to psychically interact with computer information systems.
Although she loses these abilities after the virus is rendered dormant
following an operation by Doctor Mid-Nite, she discovers she can move
her toes. However, this proves to be short-lived; Gordon remains
paralyzed.

During the company-wide crossover Infinite Crisis (2005), Oracle
teams with the Martian Manhunter in Metropolis to coordinate a
counterstrike against the Secret Society's global jailbreak. The renewed
romance between Barbara Gordon and Dick Grayson is also cut short by the
Infinite Crisis storyline.

When  continuity jumps forward one year after the events of Infinite
Crisis, Oracle and her team continue to work in Metropolis. Oracle
works with Batman, although not on a regular basis as before. Oracle
continues to lead the Birds of Prey, and expands the ranks of the
operation. In Birds of Prey No. 99, Black Canary leaves the team and
the Huntress becomes the team's de facto field leader, while Big Barda
is brought in as the group's heavy-hitter alongside a larger, rotating
roster. Oracle also makes an attempt to reforge her alliance with Power
Girl. However, when Oracle invites her to rejoin the team, she replies
that she will do so "when Hell freezes over."

In the crossover event Countdown to Final Crisis (2007), Oracle
dispatches the Question and Batwoman to capture Trickster and Piper
following their role in the murder of Bart Allen. She struggles to keep
the identities of the world's heroes from being stolen and coordinates
the response to a global crisis engineered by the Calculator, a
villainous hacker and information broker. In issue No. 5 of the comic
book series The All-New Booster Gold (2007), the title hero is
given the mission of traveling back in time in order to prevent "a
tragedy that he discovers never should've happened—the Joker shooting
and paralyzing Barbara Gordon, Batgirl." Although Booster Gold makes
several attempts to prevent the events which took place in Batman: The
Killing Joke, he ultimately fails and Barbara Gordon's chronological
history remains unchanged. Rip Hunter convinces him that Barbara's
destiny is to become Oracle. Later, Batman reveals that he kept
Joker's photos of Barbara and Booster Gold for years and waited until
Booster Gold's correct age before confronting him. Batman then thanks
Booster Gold for trying to stop the Joker and offers him his
friendship.

In "Whitewater", Gail Simone's final story arc on Birds of Prey
(2007), Oracle and her team struggle for power with Spy Smasher, a
government agent who has taken over the Birds of Prey organization.
Eventually, Spy Smasher is forced to admit her defeat and returns
control of the Birds of Prey organization to Oracle. At the conclusion
of the arc, Oracle also adopts Misfit into the Birds of Prey. Sean
McKeever temporarily took over as author of Birds of Prey, writing
issues #113–117, Birds of Prey: Metropolis or Dust (2008). The
following arch of the series Birds of Prey: Platinum Flats (2008) is
written by Tony Bedard. In the company-wide 2008 Final Crisis
storyline, Darkseid—who has finally gained control of the Anti-Life
Equation—attempts to put the mind-control equation on the internet. Both
Oracle and Mister Terrific make desperate attempts to stop Darkseid,
even attempting to shut down the entire Internet. Unfortunately, they
both fail and those affected ended up mindless slaves of Darkseid. Freed
from Darkseid's control after the restoration of the Multiverse, she
attempts to shut down the criminal Unternet set up by her opposite
number, the Calculator, as a Darkseid-free replacement for the regular
Internet and still used by tech-savvy criminals. However, the
Calculator, preventing her moves, takes control of the Kilg%re, gaining
the ability to thrive in cyberspace by controlling digital and
cybernetic avatars, and tracks Oracle down with his newfound powers.
Even though Oracle foils him, she starts doubting her abilities and
fears she's losing her edge and brilliance, which results in her
disbanding the Birds of Prey team to do some soul-searching. Birds
of Prey received cancellation in early 2009, with the final issue being
#127.

Oracle is subsequently featured in a limited series written by Kevin
VanHook titled Oracle: The Cure, a crossover arch with Batman: Battle
for the Cowl (2009). The story chronologically follows the events of
Final Crisis and Batman R.I.P._ (2008). Oracle has returned to
Gotham, and although the Birds of Prey are disbanded, she continues to
summon them to help Nightwing and Robin deal with the growing crime in
Gotham. The Calculator's plans finally come to their fruition, and
Kuttler, hoping to save his dying daughter Wendy takes on the "Babbage"
alias and begins prowling the digital world of Alta Viva, a virtual
world game, for fragments of the Anti-Life Equation unleashed by
Darkseid. Oracle, now living in a dilapidated rented apartment in
Gotham, becomes aware of Kuttler's activities after "Cheesefiend", one
of her informants, is brutally killed, with the Anti-Life Equation
itself, after coming in contact with Babbage. Hoping to stop the
Calculator and prevent him from piecing together the fragments of the
Anti-Life Equation in his possession, Oracle travels to Hong Kong,
hoping to steal them back by the means of an advanced supercomputer
programmed to track the chunk of data left behind by Babbage. However
the Calculator discovers her attempts, swearing vengeance upon her.
She manages to defeat Calculator, rendering the Anti-Life Equation's
fragments useless.

In 2009, the Batgirl comic book was relaunched with Stephanie Brown
starring as the title character. Although Oracle initially tries to
discourage Brown from crime-fighting, she eventually comes to accept her
as Batgirl. In addition, she also mentors the Calculator's daughter,
Wendy Harris, who was crippled following an attack at Titans Tower.
Oracle later takes a job as an assistant professor at Gotham
University. During the Green Lantern limited series Blackest
Night, Hal Jordan crashes into the Bat-Signal after a fight with the
Black Lantern Martian Manhunter. Oracle and Commissioner Gordon are both
present. Origins & Omens hints towards an involvement in the
storyline. After sending Green Lantern's intel to every superhero
community across the planet of the Black Lanterns, the Gordons find
themselves being attacked by the original Dark Knight's deceased rogue
gallery members, who are all reanimated by the Black Lantern Corps.
Oracle and her father are forced to fight for their lives as they
witness the Black Lanterns massacring everyone on sight at Gotham
Central. During the crisis, Oracle is rendered unconscious by an
explosion and is possessed by Deadman, who uses Oracle's body to save
Commissioner Gordon from the reanimated King Snake and the Trigger
Twins. After being rescued by Batman, Robin, and Red Robin, the Gordons
were attacked by Batman and Red Robin's parents with their saviors, the
reanimated Graysons and the Drakes. While Grayson and Drake battle the
Black Lanterns, Robin takes the Gordons to their underground base where
Alfred tends her and her father's wounds.

In Greg Rucka's Detective Comics No. 862, Barbara Gordon is approached
by Huntress and Renee Montoya (the new Question) for help in tracking
down a mysterious criminal who ordered a hit on them. Montoya is
flabbergasted upon discovering that "Commissioner Gordon's daughter" is
a superhero. In 2010, Birds of Prey was relaunched with Gail
Simone returning to write the comic. The first arch is a tie-in with the
Green Lantern Brightest Day limited series. Oracle reforms the Birds
of Prey, this time with Dove and the recently resurrected Hawk as
members. A new villainess calling herself the White Canary begins
menacing the Birds, and publicly reveals Black Canary's civilian
identity and frames her for a murder. While the team contends with White
Canary in the streets of Gotham, Oracle is kidnapped by her former
associates, Savant and Creote. This is eventually revealed to be
a ruse in order to trick White Canary. Following the team's victory
against White Canary, Oracle fakes her death during a battle with
Calculator. With most of the criminal underworld now believing that
she is dead, Oracle cuts off ties with all but a select few Gotham
heroes, and is shown refusing to help Blue Beetle, Manhunter, and
Booster Gold when they attempt to call her for assistance during
battle.

In Grant Morrison's Batman: The Return (2010), an installment of the
limited series Bruce Wayne: The Road Home (2010), Batman enlists
Oracle to help him run Batman Incorporated, a new global team of Batmen.
He tasks her with helping him fight crime on a virtual front, and shows
her a new modified Batgirl design that acts as her virtual avatar.
Oracle is later shown directing Cassandra Cain, now known as Blackbat,
on a mission in Hong Kong, where she captures some heroin smugglers for
Batman. In Scott Snyder's Black Mirror storyline, Barbara Gordon
is kidnapped by her brother, James Gordon Jr., who had returned to
Gotham after a lengthy absence to become a serial killer. He stabs
her in both of her legs, positioning the knives so that if she removes
them, she will bleed to death. As she slowly bleeds, she is able to use
her wits to distract him long enough for Batman and Commissioner Gordon
to arrive and defeat her brother.

The New 52: Batgirl, Birds of Prey and other appearances (2011–2016)

In September, 2011, following the company-wide relaunch, Barbara Gordon
stars in a new Batgirl series—one of The New 52 titles featuring the
company's most iconic characters. The conclusion of the limited series
Flashpoint (2011) establishes a new continuity within the  Universe,
with all characters regressing to a younger age and earlier stage in
their careers, while remaining in a modern timeline.  Senior VP of
Sales, Bob Wayne, explained that with each of their titles reverting to
issue No. 1, "our creative teams have the ability to take a more modern
approach—not only with each character, but with how the characters
interact with one another and the universe as a whole, and focus on the
earlier part of the careers of each of our iconic characters." Wayne
also stated that "The Killing Joke still happened and she was Oracle.
Now she will go through physical rehabilitation and become a more
seasoned and nuanced character because she had these incredible and
diverse experiences. Public reaction to the change has been mixed,
and has included criticism that  has reduced the diversity of their
character lineup, as well as "being disrespectful of the power the
character had gained as a symbol to the disabled community in her role
as Oracle." Dan DiDio, Co-Publisher of  explained
the decision by stating that "[w]e didn't want to turn our back on the
diversity issue, but she'll always be the most recognizable [Batgirl].
We are working with concerns to diversify the line. We're always looking
to re-position to be reflective of today's audience." Gail Simone,
who will be writing the series, stated: "For many years, I got to write
the character as Oracle, and there is to this day, no character who
means more to me. This is classic Barbara as she was originally
conceived, with a few big surprises. It’s a bit of a shock, to be sure,
but we’re doing everything we can to be respectful to this character’s
amazing legacy, while presenting something thrilling that a generation
of comics readers will be experiencing for the first time ... Barbara
Gordon leaping, fighting, and swinging over Gotham. Now, when citizens
of that city look up, they are going to see BATGIRL. And that is
absolutely thrilling."

In the new, revised continuity, the events of The Killing Joke took
place three years before the current storyline, and while it is
established she was paraplegic during that time, Barbara Gordon is
written as having regained her mobility after undergoing experimental
surgery at a South African clinic. Series writer Gail Simone stated
that while the character is "one of the smartest and toughest women in
comics ... One thing the book is truly about, is that the after-effects
of something like PTSD (post-traumatic stress disorder) or other
trauma-related syndromes, can strike even very smart, very
intellectually tough people, even soldiers and cops", a subject that is
generally overlooked in comic books. She also explained the method of
the character's recovery is based upon real life experiences in that
"some of the best real world work in the field of mobility
rehabilitation is coming from South Africa. People have been talking
about this as if it's some sort of mystical thing like returning from
the dead, but there are treatments and surgeries that can restore
mobility in some cases. Barbara's spine was not severed. That makes her
a candidate."

Prior to release, Batgirl No. 1 sold out at the distribution level
with over 100,000 copies printed in its first run according to Diamond
Comic Distributors. Along with Action Comics No. 1, Justice League
No. 1, Batman No. 1, Batman and Robin No. 1, Batman: The Dark
Knight No. 1, Detective Comics No. 1, Flash No. 1, Green Lantern
No. 1, and Superman No. 1, retailers were required to order a second
printing. Calvin Reid of Publishers Weekly states in a review
of the first issue: "The artwork is okay though conventional, while
Simone’s script tries to tie up of the end of the previous Barbara
Gordon/Oracle storyline and setup up the new Batgirl. Her formula:
murderous villains, blood splattering violence and high flying
superheroics mixed with single-white-female bonding ... plus a
cliffhanger ending to the first issue that offers a nifty [segue] into
the new world of Barbara Gordon and Batgirl." The New York Times
critic George Gene Gustines wrote: "Unlike some of the other  I
read this week, Batgirl achieves a deft hat trick: a well-shaped
reintroduction to a character, an elegant acknowledgement of fundamental
history and the establishment of a new status quo. This is a must-buy
series." Earning a B+ rating in a review from Entertainment
Weekly, Ken Tucker writes that Simone "[takes] her Birds of Prey
storytelling powers and focuses them on the newly revived Barbara Gordon
as Batgirl. The result is a burst of exhilaration, as Barbara/Batgirl
revels in her new freedom even as she encounters a so-far
not-terribly-chilling villain called Mirror."

Since the series relaunch in September 2011, Batgirl has remained
within the top 30 of the 300 best-selling monthly comic book
publications sold in North America. Monthly estimated sales figures are
as follows: Batgirl No. 1 with 81,489 copies (ranked 12th
overall), Batgirl No. 2 with 75,227 (ranked 14th), Batgirl
No. 3 with 62,974 (ranked 18th), Batgirl No. 4 with 53,975 (ranked
23rd), Batgirl No. 5 with 51,327 (ranked 26th), and Batgirl
No. 6 with 47,836 (ranked 30th). The harcover edition of volume 1,
Batgirl: The Darkest Reflection, which collects issues #1-6, made the
The New York Times Best Seller list, alongside Animal Man: The Hunt,
Batman & Robin: Born to Kill, Batman: Detective Comics, Wonder
Woman: Blood, Batwoman: Hydrology, Green Lantern: Sinestro.

Additionally, Barbara Gordon makes an appearance in Birds of Prey No.
1, where Black Canary offers her a spot on the new Birds of Prey roster.
She declines Canary's invitation, suggesting that Katana take her place
instead. Series writer Duane Swierczynski has stated that Batgirl
will join the team in issue #4. He commented that while she "is an
essential part of this team", she is not the focus of the series, as she
is hesitant to be associated with the other characters because of their
status as outlaws.

In October 2014, the monthly Batgirl title underwent a soft reboot with
the new creative team Brenden Fletcher (writer) Cameron Stewart (writer,
layouts), Babs Tarr (artist) and Maris Wicks (colors). The first
six-issue story explored Barbara Gordon's attempt to start a new life as
a PhD student in the hip Gotham borough of Burnside. While seemingly
light and engaging compared to Gail Simone's darker preceding run, the
new arc ultimately dealt with Babs' inability to fully escape her
earlier trauma and the villain was revealed as her own brain scans, an
algorithm similar to the pre-New 52 Oracle. While the reboot was
highly praised for its innovative use of social media, its fun and
energy, and particularly for Tarr's art, several critics condemned
the villain Dagger Type in issue #37 as a transphobic
caricature. In response, the creative team issued a joint
apology and revised the issue for the subsequent collected edition,
Batgirl Vol. 1: The Batgirl of Burnside.

On March 13, 2015  released 25 Joker-themed variant covers for
its various monthly series for release that June, in celebration of the
character's 75th anniversary. Among them was a cover to Batgirl #41 by
artist Rafael Albuquerque that took its inspiration from The Killing
Joke. The cover depicts the Joker standing next to a tearful Batgirl,
who has a red smile painted across her mouth. The Joker has one hand
holding a revolver draped over Batgirl's shoulder and is pointing to her
cheek with the other hand, as if gesturing to shoot her. The cover
quickly drew criticism for highlighting a dark period in the character's
history, especially when juxtaposed with the youthful, more optimistic
direction of the series at the time. The hashtag #changethecover drew
dozens of posts on Twitter and Tumblr asking  to not release the
variant.  ultimately withdrew the cover from publication at the
request of Albuquerque, who stated, "My intention was never to hurt or
upset anyone through my art...For that reason, I have recommended to 
that the variant cover be pulled."

 Rebirth: Batgirl and Batgirl and the Birds of Prey (2016–present)

In March 2016,  announced it would be relaunching all of its
monthly titles under the  Rebirth event. The relaunch restores
elements of the pre-Flashpoint  continuity while maintaining
elements of The New 52 as well. Among the new titles and creative
teams announced, Batgirl written by Hope Larson and Batgirl and the
Birds of Prey written by Julie Benson and Shawna Benson were
included.

Alternative versions

Various alterations of the Barbara Gordon character have appeared in
storylines published in and out of mainstream continuity titles.
Variants of the character within continuity often appear in stories
which involve time travel, such as the crossover limited series Zero
Hour: Crisis in Time, a follow-up story preceded by the 1985 limited
series Crisis on Infinite Earths which altered mainstream continuity.
Notable imprints of  such as Elseworlds and All Star 
Comics have also featured alternate versions of the character. The
Elseworlds imprint takes the company's iconic characters and places
them in alternate timelines, places and events making heroes "as
familiar as yesterday seem as fresh as tomorrow." Barbara Gordon,
as both Batgirl and Oracle, has made several appearances in Elseworlds
comics since 1997. The character is given starring roles in the
noir-style storyline Thrillkiller: Batgirl & Robin (1997), its
sequel Batgirl + Batman: Thrillkiller '62 (1998), and the
one-shot comic Elseworld's Finest: Supergirl & Batgirl (1998). In
addition, the character has supporting roles in JLA: The Nail (1998),
JLA: Created Equal (2000), Superman & Batman: Generations
(2003), Batman: Year 100 (2006), and Batman: Earth One (2012).
A version of her appears as "Nightwing" in the Smallville comic series,
replacing Stephanie Brown as previously promoted.

In 2005,  launched its All Star imprint—an ongoing series of
comics designed to pair the company's most iconic characters with the
most acclaimed writers and artists in the industry. Similar to
Elseworlds, All Star is not restricted to continuity and establishes
a fresh perspective for the latest generation of readership. According
to Dan DiDio, "[t]hese books are created to literally reach the widest
audience possible, and not just the comic book audience, but anyone who
has ever wanted to read or see anything about Superman or Batman."
An alternate Barbara Gordon was adapted into Frank Miller's All Star
Batman and Robin the Boy Wonder (2005) as a teenage Batgirl. In
addition, another variation of the character had been set to star in an
eponymous All Star Batgirl title, written by Geoff Johns; however, the
series was canceled prior to publication.


Critical and editorial commentary

In the aftermath of Batman: The Killing Joke, Barbara Gordon's
paralysis has been the subject of debate, with arguments in favor of,
and against, restoring her mobility. Writers, artists, editorial staff
and critics have spoken in great length about the nature of subject,
citing responses from readership, issues of sexism, diversity and
representation, as well as other considerations that have impacted
decisions regarding the character's portrayal.

Commentary in favor of Batgirl

Reacting to The Killing Joke and Barbara Gordon's later character
development as Oracle in Batman: Gotham Knights, Ray Tate, a reviewer
at Comics Bulletin, wrote "[t]here is absolutely no reason why Barbara
Gordon should be in a wheelchair. Alan Moore and Brian Bolland meant''
The Killing Joke'' as an imaginary tale dealing with the iconography of
Batman and the Joker ... [Batman] himself is a certifiable genius in
biochemistry. There are countless examples of Batman employing that
which is only theoretical in his fight against crime. His knowledge of
stem cell technology should surpass that of the real world. There is
simply no reason for Barbara Gordon to be confined to that
wheelchair." Regarding her representation as a character living
with a disability, and her effectiveness as a hero compared to her
incarnation as Batgirl, Tate asserts "[i]t's ridiculous to think
somebody wakes up thinking how lucky they are to be confined to a
wheelchair, and yet the attitude around  and among the fans is that
Oracle is the better character over Batgirl because of her handicap.
Rubbish. Batgirl has fought more crime and done more to aid Batman as
Batgirl than she has as Oracle. Batgirl has saved Batman's life on
numerous occasions. Oracle has not. Barbara in this incarnation is not a
bad character, but she is not better because she no longer hunts the
night in cape and cowl." Shannon Cochran in an article for Bitch
magazine entitled "The Cold Shoulder: Saving Superheroines from
Comic-book Violence" noted a long history of inequality regarding the
treatment of female heroes. She quotes Gail Simone, who discussed the
gender difference regarding the treatment of Batman and Batgirl
regarding paralysis: "Both had their backs broken [Batman broke his in a
dramatic Batcave confrontation with the villain Bane; Batgirl broke hers
when she was ambushed in her home and shot in the spine by the Joker,
never given a chance to fight]. Less than a year later, Batman was fine.
Batgirl—now named Oracle—was in a wheelchair and remained so for many
years.” Artist Alex Ross and writer/producer Paul Dini have made
attempts to return the character to her original conception. Ross
explained in an interview that he and Dini had planned to restore her
mobility by placing her in a Lazarus Pit, a naturally occurring chemical
pool in the  universe that has rejuvenating effects when a person is
submerged within it. He stated that "we pitched then-Batman editor Denny
O'Neil with these drawings of that costume design. The idea of using the
red instead of the traditional yellow was meant to invoke the idea that
coming from the Lazarus Pit, she was in a way, more compromised as a
character ... Denny shot it down, because, according to him, everybody
loves Barbara Gordon as Oracle and as a handicapped character. The
theory was that  didn't have enough handicapped characters, so they
weren't going to do anything with Barbara as she was. And the design
went into the drawer." Kate Kane, the modern Batwoman introduced
during 52, wears a variation of what would have been Gordon's new
Batgirl costume designed by Ross.

Commentary in favor of Oracle

Although critical reception of Barbara Gordon's evolution into Oracle
have been mixed among critics and other observers, according to John
Ostrander: "We have, over the years, on those occasions when I have
worked with the character, gotten some letters from those who have
disabilities of one stripe or another and all have been very supportive.
I feel very proud for my part in creating Oracle." Supporters of
Oracle argue that the Barbara Gordon character provides a greater
service to  and its readers as a disabled character, regardless
of the events that caused her paralysis. In her persona as Oracle,
Barbara Gordon is not limited to the Batman Family, serving a unique and
universal role in the  universe.  Senior Vice President Dan DiDio
comments, "Some stories ... are so strong that undoing them would be a
crime. The U would be a lesser place without Barry's sacrifice, or the
crippling of Barbara at the hands of the Joker." The character went
through possible restoration during Birds of Prey when she is infected
with microscopic machines known as nanites by the super villain
Brainiac, which attempted to repair her DNA. Marc Dipaolo, author of
War, Politics and Superheroes: Ethics and Propaganda in Comics and
Film (2011) commented that  writers and editors would not allow her
to recover completely, and that "[t]he decision was made because there
were not enough handicapped superheroes in the  Universe to justify
'curing' one, and because it would have been odd to see Barbara Gordon
escape from her wheelchair in the world of fiction when Christopher
Reeve never had that opportunity."

Restoration of the character's mobility and aftermath

In June 2011,  announced that Barbara Gordon would be returning to the
role of Batgirl in September 2011, in her own eponymous monthly comic,
as part of a company-wide relaunch of all of their titles. In addition,
former Birds of Prey writer Gail Simone would be writing the
series. This announcement became one of the most controversial
aspects of the  relaunch. Supporters of Barbara Gordon in
her persona as Oracle have expressed dismay over losing an iconic
character for the disabled community. Journalist and blogger Jill
Pantozzi, who is diagnosed with muscular dystrophy, stated that "people
being disabled is part of the real world, it is essential it be part of
the fictional world as well... Writer Kevin Van Hook did a great job
showing what disabled individuals have to go through in the mini-series
Oracle: The Cure. It’s that type of honesty I expect more of ... While
some diverse characters were mishandled over the years, Oracle was
always treated with the utmost respect but this move is the most
disrespectful I’ve seen in a long time." Gail Simone responded
directly by stating that at times when others had attempted to restore
Gordon's mobility, she fought to keep her as a disabled character, even
in light of requests from readers who also had disabilities that wished
to see the character healed. However, part of her reasoning for
reversing her decision and writing Batgirl with Gordon as the title
character was that "[a]rms and legs get ripped off, and they grow back,
somehow. Graves don't stay filled. But the one constant is that Barbara
stays in that chair. Role model or not, that is problematic and
uncomfortable, and the excuses to not cure her, in a world of purple
rays and magic and super-science, are often unconvincing or wholly
meta-textual. And the longer it goes on, the more it has stretched
credibility. But now, everything has changed. If nearly everyone in the
U, not just Batgirl but almost everyone, is now at a much earlier
stage in their career, then my main objection no longer applies, because
we are seeing Barbara at an earlier starting point." Former Batman
writer and editor Dennis O'Neil and Oracle co-creator John Ostrander
have expressed disappointment over the change. O'Neil stated that during
his tenure at , "[W]e had hordes of people in spandex beating up
criminals ... We didn't have anybody like Oracle, who overcame a
disability and was just as valuable and just as effective in a way that
didn't involve violence." However, he also stated that from an
alternate point of view, "Barbara Gordon's perception in the mainstream
public as Batgirl would be a very valid consideration." Ostrander
continues to view Oracle as a stronger character than Batgirl, but has
also expressed faith in Gail Simone's skills as a writer. He commented
that "[t]imes change and characters and people evolve. I changed things
when I wrote characters, including changing Barbara to Oracle. Others do
the same for this era ... Gail Simone is a good friend and a wonderful
writer and I'm sure her work will be wonderful."


Characterization

Silver Age

At the time of her conception, Barbara Gordon's character was intended
to reflect the women's liberation movement as an educated,
career-oriented young woman, as well as a capable crime-fighter. Batgirl
is considered to be one of the most popular character to have emerged
during the Silver Age of Comic Books. In The Supergirls: Fashion,
Feminism, Fantasy, and the History of Comic Book Heroines (2009),
author Mike Madrid states: "While she embodied the spirit of a new wave
of liberated superheroines, in the backdrop of the history of comic
books, Batgirl carried on the tradition of the gutsy female vigilantes
of the '40s who struck out on their own to right wrongs." Although
she is discouraged by Batman to engage in crime-fighting, she defiantly
ignores his objections. Her career choice as a librarian is
speculated to be due in part to the fact that it works as a convincing
cover for her much more dangerous work as Batgirl. In an effort to
conceal her identity from not only her enemies, but her father,
Commissioner Gordon, Batman and Robin, she initially conforms to
appearance and personality traits stereotypical of a librarian. In her
civilian identity, she is seen with her hair "tied up tightly in a bun.
And she wears traditionally conservative—not to say dowdy—clothing. In
other words, she embodies the stereotypical image of the female
librarian of the day--busy doing clerical tasks while attired and made
up in such a way as to guarantee to minimize whatever physical
attractiveness she might possess beneath her frumpy exterior."
Although her introduction was intended to embody feminist ideology,
aspects of her persona were also considered to be sexist, such as the
fact that "[m]uch of her arsenal was carried in a Bat-purse attached to
her utility belt[.]"

Bronze Age

In spite of shortcomings in her characterization during the late 1960s,
"by the early 1970s, Batgirl had matured, using her keen intellect,
athletic dexterity, and burgeoning detective skills to solve petty and
not-so-petty thefts". However, by the end of the Bronze Age of
Comic Books in the mid-1980s (and with the dark, gritty influence of
Frank Miller's work on the Batman-related titles), Batgirl became less
valuable to the franchise "where there was not as much room for a
librarian fighting crime in high heels". In this environment,
Barbara Gordon becomes increasingly skeptical of her effectiveness as
Batgirl until she decides to give up crime-fighting permanently.

Modern Age

Robin Anne Reid, in her 2008 book, Women in Science Fiction and
Fantasy: Overviews notes a lack of characterization given to Barbara
Gordon by Alan Moore in Batman: The Killing Joke, stating, "Barbara
Gordon was not portrayed as the intelligent and resourceful woman who
assumed the Batgirl persona; she was portrayed as a coco-serving
homemaker overly concerned with the mess her father was making cutting
and pasting news clippings." Following the character's recreation
as Oracle, she is shown having overcome her paralysis at the hands of
the Joker by utilizing her intellect to once again engage in
crime-fighting as an information broker. Speaking on her
characterization as a person living with a disability, comic writer
Devin Grayson stated that being "[h]yper-defensive about her
[paralysis], she has, if anything, over compensated. However, her very
determination to remain self-reliant, though admirable and inspiring,
has made her less willing than ever to accept support or aid of any
kind." One defining characteristic is her sense of morality, which
differs from that of Batman and her primary field agent Black Canary.
Oracle has demonstrated a willingness to use lethal force, such as in
Chuck Dixon's Birds of Prey issue No. 10, "State of War", which
contradicts the methodology used by her closest allies and most 
Comics characters. Dixon stated an interview that "[s]he's less morally
conflicted than other characters. She's very 'means to an end' oriented.
She sees that sometimes you have to kill to save lives. She's not
comfortable with that but accepts it. She would do anything to avoid
using deadly force but, when push comes to shove, she'll drop the
hammer." She demonstrates a similar moral ambiguity in Gail
Simone's Birds of Prey: Of Like Minds when she argues with Black
Canary over using illegally obtained information, which denies criminals
the right of due process. Although the Huntress has never been
opposed to using lethal force, she also comes into conflict with Oracle
over the fact that she will use the psychological impact of a mission to
subconsciously manipulate her field agents into conforming to her
ideology.

The New 52

As part of ' 2011 relaunch, The New 52, Barbara Gordon's
paralysis is described as lasting only three years time. In Batgirl
(volume 4), the character's age is reduced, and she is depicted as a
recent college graduate, having earned a degree in forensic
psychology. Although she resumes her work as Batgirl one year after
recovering her mobility, she continues to suffer from posttraumatic
stress disorder, causing her to hesitate in battle when exposed to
gunfire that could result in receiving new spinal damage. The
character also exhibits survivor guilt due to the fact she has made a
full recovery from her paralysis while others have not. In a
September 2011 interview, Gail Simone stated, "I'm enjoying writing
Batgirl at this stage in her life. She's younger, she doesn't know
everything, she's been immersed in school and her life-plan. Events
conspire to change that plan, and she's nervous about that. I love
writing Barbara under pretty much any conditions, but this really is a
key time for her."


Powers and abilities

Martial artistry

According to the character's fictional biography, Barbara Gordon trained
in judo and karate, earning black belts, prior to her tenure as Batgirl
and is described as being a "star athlete." Following the events of
The Killing Joke, Barbara Gordon continued to train in the martial
arts as Oracle, despite being paralyzed from the waist down. She has
extensive skills with eskrima fighting sticks, small firearms, and
batarangs; she customarily keeps a pair of eskrima sticks stored in the
armrests of her wheelchair as a contingency. In the revised continuity
of The New 52, she reflects on the fact that she has been taking
self-defense training since age six in Batgirl #0 (2012).

Intelligence and technological skill

Gordon is written as having a genius-level intellect and naturally
possessing a photographic memory. She is described by Gail Simone
as the most intelligent member of the Batman family and among all
characters having operated out of Gotham City. Prior to the
character's career as a vigilante, Barbara Gordon developed many
technological skills, including vast knowledge of computers and
electronics, expert skills as a hacker, and graduate training in library
sciences. Like Batman, Barbara Gordon originally used a wide variety of
computer electronics and gadgets during her early adventures as Batgirl.
These included an infrared scanner built into the cowl of her costume,
various bat-inspired weaponry, and the Batcycle. According to Gail
Simone, Oracle maintains control over the twelve technologically
advanced satellites that were created by Lex Luthor during his tenure as
President of the United States.

Information broker

As Oracle, Barbara Gordon placed her considerable skills and knowledge
at the disposal of many of the  Universe's heroes. She is a
skilled hacker, capable of retrieving and dispersing information from
private satellites, military installations, government files, and the
properties of Lex Luthor. Batman, himself a genius with a wide
knowledge base and access to vast information resources, routinely
consults Oracle for assistance. Writer and editor Dennis O'Neil, who
first established Oracle as Batman's intellectual equal and source of
information, stated that "[i]t was logical for her to be there in
Batman's world ... Batman would need someone like that."


Cultural impact

Since her debut in  publication, and fueled by her adaptation
into the Batman television series in 1967, Barbara Gordon has been
listed among fictional characters that are regarded as cultural
icons. Author Brian Cronin, in Was Superman A Spy?: And Other
Comic Book Legends Revealed (2009) notes that following her 1967 debut,
"Batgirl was soon popular enough to appear regularly over the next two
decades and Yvonne Craig certainly made an impression on many viewers
with her one season portraying young Ms. Gordon." Similarly, Cronin
states that following the publication of The Killing Joke, Barbara
Gordon—in her new persona as Oracle—became "more popular, in fact, than
she was when she was Batgirl. She even gained her own title, Birds of
Prey, about her and a group of superhero operatives she
organizes[.]" The character has been the subject of analysis in
academia, regarding the portrayal of women, librarians, and those living
with disabilities in mainstream media. Throughout the course of the
character's history, Barbara Gordon's intelligence has been one of her
defining attributes. According to BusinessWeek, she is listed as one
of the top ten most intelligent fictional superheroes appearing in
American comics, and is the only female character to appear on the
list. In 2011, IGN ranked Barbara Gordon 17th in the Top 100 Comic
Books Heroes.

Feminist interpretations

In The Supergirls: Fashion, Feminism, Fantasy, and the History of Comic
Book Heroines (2009), author Mike Madrid states that what set Barbara
Gordon as Batgirl apart from other female characters was her motivation
for crime-fighting. Unlike Batwoman who preceded her, "she wears his
symbol on her chest, but she is not his girlfriend or faithful
handmaiden." Because she does not pursue a romantic interest in
Batman, "Batgirl is a female Batman can actually regard as a brilliant
peer and a partner in the war on crime, the same way he would a
male." Historian Peter Sanderson observed that while "Barbara
Gordon initially conformed to hackneyed stereotypes as a dowdy
librarian ... her transformation into Batgirl could be seen in
retrospect as a symbol of the emerging female empowerment movement of
the 1960s. (Moreover, by the 1970s Barbara had given herself a makeover
even in her 'civilian identity' and ran for Congress.)"

In the 1980s, Barbara Kesel, after writing a complaint to  over
the negative portrayal of female characters, was given the opportunity
to write for Barbara Gordon in Detective Comics. Robin Anne Reid, in
Women in Science Fiction and Fantasy: Overviews (2009), wrote that
"Kesel's version of Batgirl established her as a character separate from
Batman and Robin: a woman motivated to do what men do, but alone and in
her own way. Her Secret Origins (1987) and Batgirl Special (1988)
countered the victimized and objectified presentation of Barbara
Gordon/Batgirl in Alan Moore's acclaimed The Killing Joke
(1988)." She notes that Kesel's interpretation of the character
emphasized her intelligence, technological skill, and ability to
overcome fear. Commenting on Barbara Gordon's eventual evolution into
Oracle, she states "[m]any readers and individuals within the industry
believe that Barbara Gordon became a 'better' character after she was
paralyzed, but few people comment on specifics of the event that allowed
her to become that 'better' character."

In Superheroes and Superegos: Analyzing the Minds Behind the Masks
(2010), author Sharon Packer wrote that "[a]nyone who feels that
feminist critics overreacted to [Gordon's] accident is advised to
consult the source material", calling the work "sadistic to the
core." Brian Cronin noted that "[many] readers felt the violence
towards Barbara Gordon was too much, and even Moore, in retrospect, has
expressed his displeasure with how the story turned out." Jeffrey
A. Brown, author of Dangerous Curves: Action Heroines, Gender,
Fetishism, and Popular Culture (2011) noted The Killing Joke as an
example of the "inherent misogyny of the male-dominated comic book
industry" in light of the "relatively unequal violence [female
characters] are subjected to." While male characters may be
critically injured or killed, they are more than likely to be returned
to their original conception, while female characters are more likely to
receive permanent damage. Reid states that although speculation
behind the editorial decision to allow the paralysis of the character to
become permanent included the idea she had become outdated, "if
audiences had grown tired of Batgirl, it was not because she was a bad
character but because she had been written badly."

Despite views that present the character's Batgirl persona as a symbol
of female empowerment, a long-held criticism is that she was originally
conceived as an uninspired variation of Batman "rather than standing
alone as leader, such as Wonder Woman" who had no pre-existing male
counterpart. In analyzing stereotypes in gender, Jackie Marsh noted
that male superheroes (such as Batman) are depicted as hyper-masculine
and anti-social, "while female superheroes are reduced to a childlike
status by their names" such as the Batgirl character. Professor
James B. South, chairman of the Department of Philosophy at Marquette
University, stated that Barbara Gordon's character development as Oracle
gave her a sense of independence she could not achieve as Batgirl.
During her tenure as Batman's protege, "she seems to develop her own
style of fighting as Batgirl, [but] she's still basically following in
Batman's footsteps." Following The Killing Joke, her recreation
as Oracle, and the launch of Birds of Prey, "we see Barbara Gordon as
a team leader and her transformation from a girl into a woman."

Representation for library and information science

In The Image and Role of the Librarian (2002), Wendi Arant and Candace
R. Benefiel argue that her portrayal as a librarian is considered to be
significant to the profession, in that it is represented as a valuable
and honorable career. Even in light of the fact that the character
abandons it in order to run for United States Congress, Barbara Gordon
is seen as being given a "career switch that even most librarians would
consider a step up." In the essay "Librarians, Professionalism and
Image: Stereotype and Reality" (2007), Abigail Luthmann views the
character less favorably, stating that "[t]he unassuming role of
librarian is used as a low-visibility disguise for her crime-fighting
alter-ego, and while her information-locating skills may have been
useful to her extra-curricular activities no direct examples are
given." Unlike her earlier incarnation as Batgirl, "[a]s Oracle,
Barbara Gordon is arguably the first true librarian-as-super-hero yet
seen in a mainstream comic book (as opposed to a super-hero who happens
to be a librarian in his/her private life)." Wendi Arant and
Candace R. Benefiel note that Oracle exerts her influence over the 
Universe primarily from home, putting "to full use the information
science skills [she] learned on her way to her PhD" In her new
persona, "the physically challenged but superbly resourceful Oracle
occupies a unique place in the annals of superhero-dom—the 'information
goddess' as crime stopper." Using Barbara Gordon in her role as
Oracle, author Sean Wise asserts her character as a model for business
networking. In How to Be a Business Superhero: Prepare for Everything,
Train with the Best, Make Your Own Destiny at Work (2008) he states
that "[o]ver the last decade, Oracle has shown the power of a strong
network of contacts, and in doing so she shows Business Superheroes the
importance of cultivating contacts and developing assets that can
further their collective goals."

Representation for the disabled

Following the character's reinvention as the information broker Oracle,
she has been regarded as a symbol of empowerment for those living with
disabilities. In Unleashing the Superhero in Us All (2008), author T.
James Musler notes that "[f]or quite sometime, any handicap was
considered insurmountable" citing Franklin D. Roosevelt as an example,
who was never photographed in a wheelchair to avoid a perception of
weakness. In reference to Barbara Gordon, he states "[r]ather than
quitting crime fighting, Barbara combines her intellect and computer
skills to help the superhero community by gathering and passing along
information." Her character thus signifies that "[n]o longer is a
handicap overwhelming, a person can live a strong good life, handicap or
not." In The Superhero Book: The Ultimate Encyclopedia Of
Comic-Book Icons And Hollywood Heroes (2004), author Gina Renée
Misiroglu observes that while disabled characters in comic book are
typically utilized as gimmicks, or—as with Charles Xavier and
Daredevil—are introduced with a pre-existing condition as part of their
origin myth, "[a]s Oracle... Gordon stands tall as the most empowering
disabled superhero. Readers witnessed her tragedy, and watched her rise
above it." James B. South's chapter "Barbara Gordon and Moral
Perfectionism" in the 2004 book Superheroes and Philosophy analyzes
how the changes in her life "from librarian to Batgirl to Oracle" drive
her to pursue a higher self, illustrating the philosophical theory of
moral perfectionism.


In other media

[Yvonne Craig as Batgirl.|alt=Yvonne Craig poses in the Batgirl costume
from the television show, holding the cape open. The costume consists of
a purple bodysuit, cowl, gloves, boots, a yellow cape and belt.]
Portrayed by Yvonne Craig, the character's first adaptation outside of
comic books took place in the third season of Batman (1967). Les
Daniels, in Batman: The Complete History (2004) wrote that the goal of
ABC was to "attract new audience members, especially idealistic young
girls and less high-minded older men." According to Craig: "I used
to think the reason they hired me was because they knew I could ride my
own motorcycle ... I realized they hired me because I had a cartoon
voice." A shared criticism of Batgirl and other female superheroes
portrayed later in television (such as Wonder Woman and the Bionic
Woman), is that she was not allowed to engage in hand-to-hand combat on
screen. As such, "her fights were choreographed carefully to
imitate the moves of a Broadway showgirl through the use of a straight
kick to her opponent's face rather than the type of kick a martial
artist would use." However, Craig has also stated: "I meet young
women who say Batgirl was their role model ... They say it's because it
was the first time they ever felt girls could do the same things guys
could do, and sometimes better. I think that’s lovely." During the
early 1970s, Craig portrayed Batgirl once again in a public service
announcement to advocate equal pay for women. Since Batman, the
character has had a long history of appearances in television and other
media. As Batgirl, Barbara Gordon plays a supporting role in a
string of animated series, voiced by Jane Webb in The Batman/Superman
Hour (1968), Melendy Britt in The New Adventures of Batman (1977),
Melissa Gilbert in Batman: The Animated Series (1992), Tara Strong in
The New Batman Adventures (1997) and Beware the Batman (2013),
Danielle Judovits in The Batman (2004), Mae Whitman in Batman: The
Brave and the Bold (2008) and Alyson Stoner in Young Justice
(2011). The Batman series also showcased the character's first
animated adaptation as Oracle, voiced by Kellie Martin in the episode
"Artifacts" (2007).

Dina Meyer starred as Barbara Gordon in the television series Birds of
Prey (2002). It became the first adaptation to show the character's
progression from Batgirl to Oracle, which included her paralysis at the
hands of the Joker. Meyer commented on her character's complex history
stating: "She's multidimensional. She was a former superhero. She was
extremely active physically for years, fighting alongside Batman. The
unfortunate incident with the Joker took away the use of her legs ...
but rather than give up and throw in the towel, as she could've done so
easily, she went and studied escrima (a martial art), got stronger in
her mental state and, while helping out her father on a case one day,
realized she had a knack for solving mysteries. And all of a sudden she
became this computer genius." Overall, the series received
criticism for its emphasis on aesthetics over plot. It aired
for one season before receiving cancellation.

Although, in the comic books Barbara Gordon was never a member of the
Teen Titans she is slated to appear in the live-action Titans series
for TNT. This version of the character will be a wheelchair-bound
computer expert, but will not yet be known as Oracle.

Other variations of the character that have been adapted into other
media include an elderly Barbara Gordon, voiced by Stockard Channing and
Angie Harmon in 1999's Batman Beyond, who after retiring as Batgirl,
became commissioner of Gotham City police.

In addition to live-action television and animation, the character has
appeared in a number of video games included in the Batman franchise.
She appears in The Adventures of Batman & Robin, Batman: Vengeance,
Batman: Rise of Sin Tzu and Batman: The Killing Joke voiced by Tara
Strong. She is also in Batman: Dark Tomorrow for the first time as
Oracle. She also appears in LEGO Batman for the PC, PlayStation
2, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Wii, DS, and PlayStation Portable. She
plays a supporting role as Oracle in Batman: Arkham Asylum for the PC,
PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360, serving as Batman's guide through Arkham,
and is voiced by Kimberly Brooks. She also appears as the radio guide
alongside Alfred Pennyworth, as they both serve as Batman's guides in
the sequel, Batman: Arkham City. A teenage Barbara also appears in the
prequel Batman: Arkham Origins, voiced by Kelsey Lansdowne. In the
2008 live-action film, The Dark Knight, a very young Barbara Gordon is
depicted. She is credited as "Gordon's Daughter", while the name
"Barbara Gordon" is reserved for Commissioner Gordon's wife. She also
acts as the primary contact for hero characters as Oracle in 
Universe Online, voiced by Katherine Catmull for the PC and the
PlayStation 3. She assists the player through the tutorial and will
offer comments and advice throughout the game including a guided tour of
the JLA Watchtower. She is a playable character in Injustice: Gods
Among Us, with Kimberly Brooks reprising her role. Barbara has returned
in Batman: Arkham Knight where she is voiced by Ashley Greene. In
addition Barbara also appears as a playable character as part of the
game's season pass.

In the fourth season of the TV series Arrow, after Felicity Smoak
suffered a similar paralyzing injury, Oliver Queen gives her the
codename Overwatch while commenting that "Oracle" was taken.

Jena Malone was cast as Barbara Gordon in the superhero movie Batman v
Superman: Dawn of Justice. Her role was cut from the theatrical
version, and she will instead be featured in the R-rated "Ultimate
Edition" on Blu-Ray and DVD.


Collected editions

-   Showcase Presents: Batgirl,_ Vol. 1 ISBN 1-4012-1367-7; collects
    early Batgirl appearances (1967–1975) (Release date 2007) Softcover
-   Batgirl: The Greatest Stories Ever Told ISBN 978-1-4012-2924-5;
    collects various stories from Detective Comics, Batman Family,
    Legends of the  Universe and Batman Chronicles. (Release
    date 2010) Softcover
-   Batgirl: Year One (2003) ISBN 1-4012-0080-X; collects all nine
    issues of the Batgirl: Year One mini-series
-   Batgirl: The Darkest Reflection; collects issues 1-6 of her
    ongoing Batgirl series. (Release date June 2012) Harover
-   Batgirl: Knightfall Descends; collects issues 7-13, and 0 of her
    ongoing Batgirl series. (Release date Feb. 2013) Harover
-   Batman: The Cat and the Bat ISBN 978-1-4012-2496-7; collects early
    Batgirl/Catwoman story from Batman Confidential 17 to 21. (Release
    date 2009) Softcover
-   Batman: Batgirl (1997) ISBN 978-1-56389-305-6; one shot special
-   Batman: The Killing Joke (1988) ISBN 0-930289-45-5
-   Batman: Thrillkiller ISBN 1-56389-424-6; collects Thrillkiller:
    Batgirl & Robin and the '62 special (1998)
-   Elseworld's Finest: Supergirl & Batgirl (1998)
-   Birds of Prey (1999) ISBN 1-56389-484-X
-   Birds of Prey: Old Friends, New Enemies (2003) ISBN 1-56389-939-6
-   Birds of Prey: Of Like Minds (2004) ISBN 1-4012-0192-X
-   Birds of Prey: Sensei & Student (2005) ISBN 1-4012-0434-1
-   Birds of Prey: Between Dark & Dawn (2006) ISBN 1-4012-0940-8
-   Birds of Prey: The Battle Within (2006) ISBN 978-1-4012-1096-0
-   Birds of Prey: Perfect Pitch (2007) ISBN 1-4012-1191-7
-   Birds of Prey: Blood and Circuits (2007) ISBN 978-1-4012-1371-8
-   Birds of Prey: Trouble in Mind; collects issues 1-7 of the ongoing
    ''Birds of Prey ''series, featuring Barbara Gordon as Batgirl (2012)
    Softcover
-   Oracle: The Cure (2010) ISBN 978-1-4012-2603-9
-   Batgirl: Death of the Family; collects issues 14-19 of her ongoing
    ''Batgirl ''series, as well as Batgirl Annual #1, Batman #17,
    and a story from Young Romance #1 (Release date October 2013)
    Harover
-   Birds of Prey: Your Kiss Might Kill; collects issues 8-13 of the
    ongoing Birds of Prey series, featuring Barbara Gordon as
    Batgirl (2013) Softcover
-   Batgirl: Wanted; Collects issues 20-26 of her ongoing "Batgirl"
    series as well as "Batman: The Dark Knight #23.1 -
    Ventriloquist". (2014) Harover
-   Batgirl: Deadline; Collects issues 27-34 of her ongoing "Batgirl"
    series in addition to "Batgirl Annual #2" and "Batgirl: Future's
    End #1". (2015) Harover
-   Batgirl: The Batgirl of Burnside; Collects issues 35-40 of her
    ongoing "Batgirl" series with a story from "Secret Origins #10"
    included as well. (June 2015) Harover
-   Birds of Prey: A Clash of Daggers; collects issues 14-17 of the
    ongoing'' Birds of Prey'' series, along with Batgirl Annual #1,
    featuring Barbara Gordon as Batgirl (December 2013) Softcover

