BAT-MITE is a fictional character appearing in publications by 
Comics. The character made his first appearance in Detective Comics
#267 (May 1959) in a story titled "Batman Meets Bat-Mite" written by
Bill Finger, with art by Sheldon Moldoff. Bat-Mite is an Imp similar
to the Superman villain Mister Mxyzptlk. Appearing as a small childlike
man in an ill-fitting costume, Bat-Mite possesses what appears to be
near-infinite magical power, but in reality is highly advanced
technology from the fifth dimension that cannot be understood by humans'
limited three-dimensional views. Unlike Mxyzptlk, Bat-Mite idolizes his
superhero target and thus he has visited Batman on various occasions,
often setting up strange events so that he could see his hero in action.
Bat-Mite is more of a nuisance than a supervillain, and often departs of
his own accord upon realizing that he has angered his idol.


Fictional character history

Pre-Crisis

[Cover to Detective Comics #267 (May 1959), art by Curt Swan]

Bat-Mite regularly appeared in Batman, Detective Comics, and
World's Finest Comics for five years. Bat-Mite and Mr. Mxyzptlk teamed
up four times in the pages of World's Finest Comics to plague Superman
and Batman together, as well. In 1964, however, when the Batman titles
were revamped under new editor Julius Schwartz, Bat-Mite vanished along
with the other extraneous members of the Batman family such as Ace the
Bat-Hound. After this, only three more Bat-Mite stories were published
in the pre-Crisis  Universe: two Bat-Mite/Mr. Mxyzptlk team ups in
World's Finest Comics #152 (August 1965) and #169 (September 1967)
(which were not edited by Schwartz but by Mort Weisinger), and
"Bat-Mite's New York Adventure" from Detective Comics #482
(February–March 1979), in which the imp visits the  offices and
insists that he be given his own feature in a Batman comic. This story
featured protestors with picket signs shouting "We want Bat-Mite!"
outside the Tishman Building (where 's editorial offices were located
at the time), and was accompanied by an editorial comment that this
story was published specifically to acknowledge the actual requests of
fans for this character's revival.

Later Bat-Mite appeared in a one-page story in the 200th issue of The
Brave and the Bold.

Post-Crisis

After the continuity-changing 1985 limited series Crisis on Infinite
Earths was published, Bat-Mite was mostly removed from the Batman
comics canon. Bat-Mite made an appearance in the series Legends of the
Dark Knight, although he may have been the hallucination of a
drug-addled criminal named Bob Overdog. This comic states that Bat-Mite
is one of the many admirers of superheroes from another dimension. This
version of Bat-Mite later appeared in Mitefall, a one-shot book which
was a parody of the "Knightfall" Batman storyline (with Overdog in the
Jean-Paul Valley role). In #6 of the 1999 World's Finest miniseries,
Mr. Mxyzptlk encountered Bat-Mite, shortly after being mistaken for him
by Overdog. While in this story the post-Crisis Bat-Mite encountered
Batman for the first time, Superman and Batman subsequently concluded
that Mxyzptlk had created him, inspired by Overdog's ravings.

Bat-Mite also appeared in the 2000 one-shot Elseworlds comic special
World's Funnest, in which he battles Mr. Mxyzptlk, destroying the
pre-Crisis multiverse and the post-Crisis  Universe, as well as
the Elseworlds of Kingdom Come, Batman: The Dark Knight Returns, and
the  animated universe. As an Elseworlds story itself, World's
Funnest has no impact on continuity, as inferred from Dark Knight
Returns and Kingdom Come being introduced to the official  multiverse
as a result of the series 52.

Apart from World's Funnest, there has been no direct connection
between Bat-Mite and Mr. Mxyzptlk. In the Bizarro Comics anthology,
Mxyzptlk's native 5th Dimension seemed to include beings similar to
Bat-Mite and Johnny Thunder's Thunderbolt. Neither of these comics are
considered canonical; however, in a JLA/JSA crossover in JLA and in
JSA #78–80 it was revealed that both Mxyzptlk and Thunderbolt come
from the 5th Dimension. Letter columns and writer interviews suggest
that Bat-Mite comes from there as well, although this has never been
shown thus far in the comic stories themselves.

In the post-Crisis issue Superman/Batman #25, it was revealed that
the Joker had gained Fifth Dimensional powers by maintaining the essence
of Mr. Mxyzptlk from the earlier "Emperor Joker" storyline; at the end,
Bizarro was able to extract this latent magical essence from the Joker,
which manifested in a form recognizable as Bat-Mite. As such, a Bat-Mite
has been fully reestablished into the current continuity as an outgrowth
of Mr. Mxyzptlk incubated within the Joker.

The first post-Infinite Crisis appearance of Bat-Mite was in Batman
#672, written by Grant Morrison. Batman is confronted with Bat-Mite
(or "Might") after being shot in the chest and suffering a heart attack.
Might, who bears a green insectoid creature on his back, claims to have
come from "Space B at the Fivefold Expansion of Zrfff" (at times
Zrfff has been used as the name of Mr. Mxyzptlk's home dimension). Only
Batman sees him. As Batman is having an increasingly difficult time
keeping his grip on reality during this period, it is possible that Mite
is a mental delusion.

In Batman #678, after Batman transforms himself into "the Batman of
Zur-En-Arrh", Might reappears on the last page with him, commenting
"uh-oh" regarding Batman's increasing delusions. He then counsels the
Zur-En-Arrh Batman, a 'back-up' personality manufactured by Bruce
himself to keep Batman able to fight in case he was mindwiped, or driven
to insanity. Batman #680 reveals that Might is indeed a product of
Batman's imagination, representing the last vestiges of Batman's
rational mind within the Zur-En-Arrh Batman, although when asked by
Batman whether he is an extra-dimensional being or a figment of his
imagination, Bat-Mite responds that "the fifth dimension is
imagination".

In Superman/Batman #52, Bat-Mite appears having had a bet with Mr.
Mxyzptlk similar to that of World's Funnest. This Bat-Mite appears to
admire Batman, and Batman addresses him with familiarity.

The New 52

On February 6, 2015,  announced a Bat-Mite monthly series for
release in June 2015. The six-issue series concluded in November.


In other media

Television

[Bat-Mite, Batman, and Robin from The New Adventures of Batman.]

-   Bat-Mite was a regular character of the 1977 Filmation animated
    series The New Adventures of Batman voiced by Lou Scheimer. He was
    depicted as a well-meaning magical fan of the superhero. As such, he
    tried to help Batman even though he usually complicated matters,
    with a whiny "All I wanna do is help!" as a near-catchphrase. One
    episode featured his home planet called Ergo as well as a villain of
    Bat-Mite's species named Zarbor. He also has a crush on
    Batgirl.
-   An animatronic Bat-Mite briefly appeared in the Batman: The
    Animated Series episode "Deep Freeze", voiced by Pat Fraley.
    Bat-Mite enthusiastically greeted Batman, saying "Greetings, Dynamic
    Duo! I'm your biggest fan!" before kissing Robin, who was shocked.
    It then malfunctions and falls apart, stuttering "I just
    wanna help!". It is revealed just to be a robot toy, created by
    robotics expert Karl Rossum (voiced by William Sanderson). In the
    background, an animatronic Mister Mxyzptlk, Streaky the Supercat and
    Krypto the Superdog can also be seen in Rossum's apartment.
-   Bat-Mite also appeared in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold
    episodes "Legends of the Dark Mite", "Emperor Joker", "Bat-Mite
    Presents: Batman's Strangest Cases!" and the series finale,
    "Mitefall!", voiced by Paul Reubens. This version of Bat-Mite is
    powerful enough to regularly break the fourth wall and read to
    Batman his past, present and future exploits from real world comic
    books, and make fun of real-world comic convention fans.
-   Bat-Mite appears in the television special Lego : Batman
    Be-Leaguered voiced again by Paul Reubens. He was behind the
    abduction of the Justice League members and specific objects in
    order to eliminate the Justice League so that Batman can be the
    greatest hero in the universe. To do this, he became the mysterious
    benefactor to Lex Luthor, Joker, Penguin, Man-Bat, Captain Cold, and
    Black Manta in order to pull off the heists. When the Justice League
    members were abducted and placed in a cage, Bat-Mite assembled a
    special death trap that would be activated by the sun's rays. Batman
    arrives at the Hall of Justice where the captured Justice League
    members were held and informs them about his previous encounters
    with Bat-Mite. The Justice League members got out of the death trap
    when it turned out that the cage was unlocked. Bat-Mite ends up
    using his powers to summon the villains to fight Batman and the
    Justice League. When Batman and the Justice League defeat the
    villains, Bat-Mite makes them disappear and states that the Justice
    League has impressed him as he leaves. Batman warns the Justice
    League members that Bat-Mite may become fans of them as well.

Video games

-   Bat-Mite appears as a playable character in Lego Batman 3: Beyond
    Gotham, voiced by Roger Craig Smith.

