BATGIRL is the name of several fictional superheroes appearing in
American comic books published by , depicted as female
counterparts to the superhero Batman. Although the character Betty Kane
was introduced into publication in 1961 by Bill Finger and Sheldon
Moldoff as BAT-GIRL, she was replaced by BARBARA GORDON in 1967, who
later came to be identified as the iconic Batgirl. Depicted as the
daughter of Gotham City police commissioner James Gordon, she debuted in
Detective Comics #359, titled "The Million Dollar Debut of Batgirl!"
(1967) by writer Gardner Fox and artist Carmine Infantino. As Batgirl,
the character operates primarily in Gotham City, allying herself with
Batman and the original Robin, Dick Grayson, as well as other prominent
heroes in the  Universe.

Batgirl makes regular appearances in Detective Comics, Batman Family
and several other books produced by  until 1988. That year, she
appears in Barbara Kesel's Batgirl Special #1, in which she retires
from crime-fighting. She subsequently appears in Alan Moore's graphic
novel Batman: The Killing Joke where, in her civilian identity, she is
shot by the Joker and left paraplegic. Although she is recreated as the
computer expert and information broker Oracle by editor Kim Yale and
writer John Ostrander the following year, her paralysis sparked debate
about the portrayal of women in comics, particularly violence depicted
toward female characters.

In the 1999 crossover No Man's Land, the character Helena Bertinelli,
known as Huntress, briefly assumes the role of Batgirl until she is
stripped of the identity by Batman for violating his stringent codes.
Within the same storyline, writer Kelley Puckett and artist Damion Scott
introduce the character Cassandra Cain, written as the daughter of
assassins David Cain and Lady Shiva; she takes the mantle of Batgirl
under the guidance of Batman and Oracle. In 2000, she became the first
Batgirl to star in an eponymous monthly comic book series, in addition
to becoming one of the most prominent characters of Asian descent to
appear in American comics. The series was canceled in 2006, at which
point during the company-wide event One Year Later, she is established
as a villain and head of the League of Assassins. After receiving harsh
feedback from readership, she is later restored to her original
conception. However, the character Stephanie Brown, originally known as
Spoiler and later Robin, succeeds her as Batgirl after Cassandra Cain
abandons the role.

Stephanie Brown became the featured character of the Batgirl series
written by Bryan Q. Miller from 2009 to 2011.  subsequently relaunched
all their monthly publications during The New 52 event. In the revised
continuity, Barbara Gordon recovers from her paralysis following a
surgical procedure and stars in the relaunched Batgirl series written
by Gail Simone as the title character. As Batgirl, Barbara Gordon has
been adapted into various media relating to the Batman franchise,
including television, film, animation, video games, and other
merchandise. This factored into the decision to return her to the comic
book role, as Dan DiDio, co-publisher of , expressed that she
is the best-known version of the character.


Publication history

Detective Comics, Batman Family and other appearances (1961–1988)

Following the accusations of a homoerotic subtext in the depiction of
the relationship between Batman and Robin as described in Fredric
Wertham's book Seduction of the Innocent (1954), a female character,
Kathy Kane the Batwoman, appeared in 1956 as a love-interest for Batman.
In 1961  introduced a second female character as a
love-interest for Robin. Betty Kane as "Bat-Girl" arrived as the niece
of and Robin-like sidekick to Batwoman, first appearing in Batman #139
(1961). The creation of the Batman Family, which included Batman and
Batwoman depicted as parents, Robin and Bat-Girl depicted as their
children, the extraterrestrial imp Bat-Mite and the "family pet" Ace the
Bat-Hound, caused the Batman-related comic books to take "a wrong turn,
switching from superheroes to situational comedy".

 abandoned these characters in 1964 when newly appointed
Batman-editor Julius Schwartz judged them too silly and therefore
inappropriate. Schwartz had asserted that these characters should be
removed, considering the Batman related comic books had steadily
declined in sales, and restored the Batman mythology to its original
conception of heroic vigilantism. Bat-Girl, along with other characters
in the Batman Family, were retconned out of existence following the 1985
limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths. However, even though
Bat-Girl did not exist in the post-Crisis continuity, a modified
version of the character, Mary Elizabeth "Bette" Kane, introduced as the
superhero Flamebird, continues to appear in  publications.

Schwartz stated that he had been asked to develop a new female character
in order to attract a female viewership to the Batman television
series of the 1960s. Executive producer William Dozier suggested that
the new character would be the daughter of Gotham City's Police
Commissioner James Gordon, and that she would adopt the identity of
Batgirl. When Dozier and producer Howie Horowitz saw rough concept
artwork of the new Batgirl by artist Carmine Infantino during a visit to
 offices, they optioned the character in a bid to help sell a third
season to the ABC television network. Infantino reflected on the
creation of Batgirl, stating "Bob Kane had had a Bat-Girl for about
three stories in the ’50s but she had nothing to do with a bat. She was
like a pesky girl version of Robin. I knew we could do a lot better, so
Julie and I came up with the real Batgirl, who was so popular she almost
got her own TV show." Yvonne Craig portrayed the character in the
show's third season. Barbara Gordon and alter ego Batgirl debuted in
Detective Comics #359, "The Million Dollar Debut of Batgirl" (1967).
In the debut story, while driving to a costume ball dressed as a female
version of Batman, Barbara Gordon intervenes in a kidnapping attempt on
Bruce Wayne by the super villain Killer Moth, attracting Batman's
attention and leading to a crime-fighting career. Although Batman
insists she give up crime-fighting because of her gender, Batgirl
disregards his objections.

In her civilian identity, Dr. Barbara Gordon Ph.D. is depicted as a
career woman with a doctorate in library science, as well as being head
of Gotham City public library, "presumably one of the largest public
libraries in the  version of reality." She was given a
regular backup slot in Detective Comics starting with issue #384
(February 1969), alternating issues with Robin until issue #404, after
which she had the backup slot to herself. Frank Robbins wrote nearly all
of these backups, which were penciled first by Gil Kane and later by Don
Heck. Barbara Gordon’s Batgirl exceeded the earlier Bat-Girl and
Batwoman characters in popularity, and readers requested for her to
appear in other titles. Although some readers requested that Batwoman
also continue to appear in publication,  responded to the fan-based
acclaim and criticism of the new character in an open letter in
Detective Comics #417 (1971), stating: "I'd like to say a few
words about the reaction some readers have to Batgirl. These are readers
who remember Batwoman and the other Bat-girls from years back ... They
were there because romance seemed to be needed in Batman's life. But
thanks to the big change and a foresighted editor, these hapless females
are gone for good. In their place stands a girl who is a capable
crime-fighter, a far cry from Batwoman who constantly had to be rescued
[by] Batman."

Batgirl continued to appear in  publications throughout the
late 1960s and 1970s as a supporting character in Detective Comics, in
addition to guest appearances in various titles such as Justice League
of America, World's Finest Comics, The Brave and the
Bold, Adventure Comics, and Superman. In the
early-1970s Batgirl reveals her secret identity to her father (who had
already discovered it on his own) and serves as a member of the United
States House of Representatives. She moves to Washington, D.C.,
intending to give up her career as Batgirl, and in June 1972 appeared in
a story entitled "Batgirl's Last Case." Julius Schwartz brought her
back a year later in Superman #268 (1973) in which she has a blind
date with Clark Kent, establishing their friendship, and fights
alongside Superman. Batgirl and Superman team up twice more, in
Superman #279 and  Presents #19. Batgirl also guest-starred
in other Superman related titles such as #453 of Adventure Comics and
in Superman Family #171, where she teams with Supergirl. The character
is given a starring role in 's Batman Family comic book which
debuted in 1975. The original Robin, Dick Grayson, became her
partner in the series, with the two frequently referred to as the
"Dynamite Duo: Batgirl & Robin". Batgirl meets Batwoman in Batman
Family #10, when the retired superhero briefly returns to
crime-fighting (before the Bronze Tiger murders Kane). The two fight
Killer Moth and Cavalier, and learn each other's secret identities.
Batwoman retires once again at the conclusion of the story, leaving
Batgirl to continue crime-fighting. Although this series ended after
three years of publication, Batgirl continued to appear in back up
stories published in Detective Comics through issue #519 (October
1982).

Crisis on Infinite Earths, a limited miniseries published in 1985, was
written in order to reduce the complex history of  to a single
continuity. Although Batgirl is a featured character, her role is
relatively small—she delivers Supergirl's eulogy in issue seven of the
12-part series. The conclusion of Crisis on Infinite Earths
changed  Universe continuity in many ways. Following the reboot,
Barbara Gordon is born to Roger and Thelma Gordon, and she is Jim
Gordon's niece and adopted daughter in current canon. Post-Crisis,
Supergirl does not arrive on Earth until after Gordon has established
herself as Oracle, and many of the adventures she shared with Batgirl
are retroactively described as having been experienced by Power Girl. In
Secret Origins #20 (1987), Barbara Gordon's origin is rebooted by
author Barbara Randal. Within the storyline, Gordon recounts the series
of events that lead to her career as Batgirl, including her first
encounter with Batman as a child, studying martial arts under the
tutelage of a sensei, memorizing maps and blue prints of the city,
excelling in academics in order to skip grades, and pushing herself to
become a star athlete.

Batgirl Special and Batman: The Killing Joke (1988)

 officially retired the hero in the one-shot comic Batgirl Special
#1 (July 1988), written by Barbara Kesel. Later that year, she
appears in Alan Moore's Batman: The Killing Joke. In this graphic
novel, the Joker shoots and paralyzes Barbara Gordon in an attempt to
drive her father insane, thereby proving to Batman that anyone can be
morally compromised. Although events in The Killing Joke exert a great
impact on the character, the story has little to do with her. She is
deployed as a plot device to cement the Joker’s vendetta against
Commissioner Gordon and Batman. In 2006, during an interview with
Wizard, Moore expressed regret over his treatment of the character
calling it "shallow and ill-conceived". He stated prior to writing
the graphic novel, "I asked  if they had any problem with me crippling
Barbara Gordon—who was Batgirl at the time—and if I remember, I spoke to
Len Wein, who was our editor on the project", and following a discussion
with then-Executive Editorial Director Dick Giordano, "Len got back onto
the phone and said, ‘Yeah, okay, cripple the bitch.'" Although there
has been speculation as to whether or not editors at  specifically
intended to have the character's paralysis become permanent, Brian
Cronin, author of Was Superman A Spy?: And Other Comic Book Legends
Revealed (2009) noted that  had hired Barbara Kesel to write the
Batgirl Special specifically to retire the character and set her in
place for The Killing Joke. Gail Simone included the character's
paralysis in a list of "major female characters that had been killed,
mutilated, and depowered", dubbing the phenomenon "Women in
Refrigerators" in reference to a 1994 Green Lantern story where the
title character discovers his girlfriend's mutilated body in his
refrigerator. Following the release of the graphic novel, comic book
editor and writer Kim Yale discussed how distasteful she found the
treatment of Barbara Gordon with her husband, fellow comic writer John
Ostrander. Rather than allow the character to fall into obscurity, the
two decided to revive her as a character living with a disability—the
information broker, Oracle.

No Man's Land (1999)

Eleven years after the editorial retirement of Barbara Gordon as
Batgirl, a new version of the character was introduced in Batman:
Shadow of the Bat #83 during the multi-title story arc "No Man's Land"
(1999). In Batman: Legends of the Dark Knight #120 (1999), the new
Batgirl is revealed to be Helena Bertinelli, an established 
superhero alternatively known as the Huntress. Bertinelli is
eventually forced to abandon the mantle by Batgirl. No Man's Land
also marks the introduction of Cassandra Cain in Batman #567
(1999). Depicted as a martial arts child prodigy, Cassandra Cain is
written as a young woman of partly Asian descent who succeeds Helena
Bertinelli as Batgirl, with the approval of both Batman and Oracle.

Batgirl and other appearances (2000–2011)

The first Batgirl monthly comic was published in 2000, with Cassandra
Cain as the title character. Raised by assassin David Cain, Cassandra
Cain was not taught spoken language, but instead was taught to "read"
physical movement. Subsequently, Cain's only form of communication was
body language. The parts of the character's brain normally used for
speech were trained so Cain could read other people's body language and
predict, with uncanny accuracy, their next move. This also caused her
brain to develop learning functions different from most, a form of
dyslexia that hampers her abilities to read and write.

Despite Cain's disability, author Andersen Gabrych describes the
character's unique form of language as the key factor in what makes Cain
an excellent detective; the ability to walk into a room and "know"
something is wrong based on body language. During the first arc of
the Batgirl comic book series entitled "Silent Running", Cassandra
Cain encounters a psychic who "reprograms" her brain, enabling her to
comprehend verbal language, while simultaneously losing the ability to
predict movements. This issue is resolved during the second arc of
the series, "A Knight Alone", when Batgirl encounters the assassin Lady
Shiva who agrees to teach her how to predict movement once again.
Six years after its debut,  canceled the Batgirl comic book
series with issue #73 (2006), ending with Cain relinquishing her role as
Batgirl.

When  continuity skipped forward one year after the events of
the limited series Infinite Crisis, Cassandra Cain is revived as
leader of the League of Assassins, having abandoned her previous
characterization as an altruist. The character's progression from hero
to villain angered some of her fans and was accompanied by heavy
criticism. Cain reprised her role as Batgirl in the "Titans East"
(2007) storyline of Teen Titans, where it was discovered that she
had been influenced by a mind-altering drug administered by supervillain
Deathstroke the Terminator. Following the conclusion of the storyline,
 has restored Cain's original characterization as a superhero
and the character has been given a supporting role in the comic book
series Batman and the Outsiders.

Following the events of Batman's disappearance, Cassandra, acting under
her mentor's orders in the event of his death, handed over the Batgirl
mantle to Stephanie Brown, the former Spoiler and Robin. After
declining an offer from Tim Drake to reclaim the Batgirl mantle from
Stephanie, Cassandra rejoined the Batman Family under the new
identity of Blackbat. She currently acts as the Hong Kong
representative of Batman Inc.

Stephanie Brown, formerly the Spoiler and briefly the fourth Robin,
takes up the mantle of Batgirl after Cassandra Cain gives Brown her
costume under Batman's order. Eventually, Barbara Gordon approves of
Brown as her newest successor — and she gives Brown her own Batgirl
costume and becomes her mentor for a period. Brown is the fourth
in-continuity Batgirl and the second Batgirl to star in her own ongoing
Batgirl comic book series.

The New 52: Batgirl, Birds of Prey and other appearances (2011–2016)

In September, 2011, following the company-wide relaunch, Barbara Gordon
stars in a new Batgirl series—one of The New 52 titles featuring the
company's most iconic characters. The conclusion of the limited series
Flashpoint (2011) establishes a new continuity within the  Universe,
with all characters regressing to an earlier age and stage in their
careers, while remaining in a modern timeline.  Senior VP of Sales,
Bob Wayne, explained that with each of their titles reverting to issue
#1, "our creative teams have the ability to take a more modern
approach—not only with each character, but with how the characters
interact with one another and the universe as a whole, and focus on the
earlier part of the careers of each of our iconic characters." Wayne
also stated that "The Killing Joke still happened and she was Oracle.
Now she will go through physical rehabilitation and become a more
seasoned and nuanced character because she had these incredible and
diverse experiences. Dan DiDio, Co-Publisher of  explained
the decision by stating that "she'll always be the most recognizable
[Batgirl]." Series writer Gail Simone stated: "For many years, I got
to write the character as Oracle, and there is to this day, no character
who means more to me. This is classic Barbara as she was originally
conceived, with a few big surprises. It’s a bit of a shock, to be sure,
but we’re doing everything we can to be respectful to this character’s
amazing legacy, while presenting something thrilling that a generation
of comics readers will be experiencing for the first time ... Barbara
Gordon leaping, fighting, and swinging over Gotham. Now, when citizens
of that city look up, they are going to see BATGIRL. And that is
absolutely thrilling."

In the new, revised continuity, the events of The Killing Joke took
place three years before the current storyline, and while it is
established she was paraplegic during that time, Barbara Gordon is
written as having regained her mobility after undergoing experimental
surgery at a South African clinic. Although she resumes her work as
Batgirl one year after her recovery, she continues to suffer from
posttraumatic stress disorder, causing her to hesitate in battle when
exposed to gunfire that could result in receiving new spinal damage.
The character also exhibits survivor guilt due to the fact she has made
a full recovery from her paralysis while others have not. Series
writer Gail Simone stated that while the character is "one of the
smartest and toughest women in comics ... One thing the book is truly
about, is that the after-effects of something like PTSD (post-traumatic
stress disorder) or other trauma-related syndromes, can strike even very
smart, very intellectually tough people, even soldiers and cops", a
subject that is generally overlooked in comic books. She also
explained the method of the character's recovery is based upon real life
experiences in that "some of the best real world work in the field of
mobility rehabilitation is coming from South Africa. People have been
talking about this as if it's some sort of mystical thing like returning
from the dead, but there are treatments and surgeries that can restore
mobility in some cases. Barbara's spine was not severed. That makes her
a candidate."

Prior to release, Batgirl #1 sold out at the distribution level with
over 100,000 copies printed in its first run according to Diamond Comic
Distributors. Along with Action Comics #1, Justice League #1,
Batman #1, Batman and Robin #1, Batman: The Dark Knight #1,
Detective Comics #1, Flash #1, Green Lantern #1, and Superman
#1, retailers were required to order a second printing. Calvin
Reid of Publishers Weekly states in a review of the first issue: "The
artwork is okay though conventional, while Simone’s script tries to tie
up of the end of the previous Barbara Gordon/Oracle storyline and setup
up the new Batgirl. Her formula: murderous villains, blood splattering
violence and high flying superheroics mixed with single-white-female
bonding ... plus a cliffhanger ending to the first issue that offers a
nifty [segue] into the new world of Barbara Gordon and Batgirl."
The New York Times critic George Gene Gustines wrote: "Unlike some of
the other  I read this week, Batgirl achieves a deft hat trick:
a well-shaped reintroduction to a character, an elegant acknowledgement
of fundamental history and the establishment of a new status quo. This
is a must-buy series." Earning a B+ rating in a review from
Entertainment Weekly, Ken Tucker writes that Simone "[takes] her Birds
of Prey storytelling powers and focuses them on the newly revived
Barbara Gordon as Batgirl. The result is a burst of exhilaration, as
Barbara/Batgirl revels in her new freedom even as she encounters a
so-far not-terribly-chilling villain called Mirror."

Since the series relaunch in September 2011, Batgirl has remained
within the top 30 of the 300 best-selling monthly comic book
publications sold in North America. Monthly estimated sales figures are
as follows: Batgirl No. 1 with 81,489 copies (ranked 12th
overall), Batgirl No. 2 with 75,227 (ranked 14th), Batgirl
No. 3 with 62,974 (ranked 18th), Batgirl No. 4 with 53,975 (raked
23rd), Batgirl No. 5 with 51,327 (raked 26th), and Batgirl
No. 6 with 47,836 (ranked 30th). The harover edition of volume 1,
Batgirl: The Darkest Reflection, which collects issues #1-6, made the
The New York Times Best Seller list, alongside Animal Man: The Hunt,
Batman & Robin: Born to Kill, Batman: Detective Comics, Wonder
Woman: Blood, Batwoman: Hydrology, Green Lantern: Sinestro.

Additionally, Barbara Gordon makes an appearance in Birds of Prey No.
1, where Black Canary offers her a spot on the new Birds of Prey roster.
She declines Canary's invitation, suggesting that Katana take her place
instead. Series writer Duane Swierczynski has stated that Batgirl
will join the team in issue #4. He commented that while she "is an
essential part of this team", she is not the focus of the series, as she
is hesitant to be associated with the other characters because of their
status as outlaws.

In October 2014, the monthly Batgirl title underwent a soft reboot with
the new creative team Brenden Fletcher (writer) Cameron Stewart (writer,
layouts), Babs Tarr (artist) and Maris Wicks (colors). The first
six-issue story explored Barbara Gordon's attempt to start a new life as
a PhD student in the hip Gotham borough of Burnside. While seemingly
light and engaging compared to Gail Simone's darker preceding run, the
new arc ultimately dealt with Babs' inability to fully escape her
earlier trauma and the villain was revealed as her own brain scans, an
algorithm similar to the pre-New 52 Oracle. While the reboot was
highly praised for its fun, energy, innovative use of social media, and
particularly for Tarr's art, issue 37 caused controversy with its
depiction of a villain named Dagger Type, which some critics saw as a
transphobic caricature. In response, the creative team
issued a joint apology and revised the issue for the subsequent
collected edition, Batgirl Vol. 1: The Batgirl of Burnside.

On March 13, 2015  released 25 Joker-themed variant covers for
its various monthly series for release that June, in celebration of the
character's 75th anniversary. Among them was a cover to Batgirl #41 by
artist Rafael Albuquerque that took its inspiration from The Killing
Joke. The cover depicts the Joker standing next to a tearful Batgirl,
who has a red smile painted across her mouth. The Joker has one hand
holding a revolver draped over Batgirl's shoulder and is pointing to her
cheek with the other hand, as if gesturing to shoot her. The cover
quickly drew criticism for highlighting a dark period in the character's
history, especially when juxtaposed with the youthful, more optimistic
direction of the series at the time. The hashtag #changethecover drew
dozens of posts on Twitter and Tumblr asking  to not release the
variant.  ultimately withdrew the cover from publication at the
request of Albuquerque, who stated, "My intention was never to hurt or
upset anyone through my art...For that reason, I have recommended to 
that the variant cover be pulled."

 Rebirth: Batgirl and Batgirl and the Birds of Prey (2016–present)

In March 2016,  announced it would be relaunching all of its
monthly titles under the  Rebirth event. The relaunch restores
elements of the pre-Flashpoint  continuity while maintaining
elements of The New 52 as well. Among the new titles and creative
teams announced, Batgirl written by Hope Larson and Batgirl and the
Birds of Prey written by Julie Benson and Shawna Benson were
included.

Alternative versions

Various alterations of Barbara Gordon as Batgirl have appeared in
storylines published in and out of mainstream continuity titles.
Variants of the character within continuity often appear in stories
which involve time travel, such as the crossover limited series Zero
Hour: Crisis in Time, a follow-up story preceded by the 1985 limited
series Crisis on Infinite Earths which altered mainstream continuity.
Notable imprints of  such as Elseworlds and All Star 
Comics have also featured alternate versions of the character. The
Elseworlds imprint takes the company's iconic characters and places
them in alternate timelines, places and events making heroes "as
familiar as yesterday seem as fresh as tomorrow." As Batgirl,
Barbara Gordon has made several appearances in Elseworlds comics since
1997. The character is given starring roles in the noir-style storyline
Thrillkiller (1997), its sequel Thrillkiller '62 (1998), and
the one-shot comic Elseworld's Finest: Supergirl & Batgirl (1998).

In 2005,  launched its All Star imprint—an ongoing series of
comics designed to pair the company's most iconic characters with the
most acclaimed writers and artists in the industry. Similar to
Elseworlds, All Star is not restricted to continuity and establishes
a fresh perspective for the latest generation of readership. According
to Dan DiDio, "[t]hese books are created to literally reach the widest
audience possible, and not just the comic book audience, but anyone who
has ever wanted to read or see anything about Superman or Batman."
An alternate Barbara Gordon was adapted into Frank Miller's All Star
Batman and Robin the Boy Wonder (2005) as a teenage Batgirl. In
addition, another variation of the character had been set to star in an
eponymous All Star Batgirl title, written by Geoff Johns; however, the
series was canceled prior to publication.

Alternate versions of Batgirl aside from Barbara Gordon have also
appeared in publications by . In Batman Beyond Unlimited (set
in the continuity of the animated series Batman Beyond), the new
Batgirl is a 15-year-old girl named Nissa. In Batgirl: Future's
End #1, set in an alternate future, a trio of Batgirls include Casandra
Cain, Stephanie Brown and newcomer Tiffany Fox—the daughter of Lucius
Fox and the first African American character to be portrayed as
Batgirl. In the alternate history  Bombshells universe,
there is no singular Batgirl. Instead, there exists a group of young
female vigilantes known as THE BATGIRLS, whose ranks consist of a
Batwoman fan named Harper Row, an African-American mechanic named Kathy
Duquesne, a young girl named Nell Little, and a Singaporean-American
dancer named Alysia Yeoh.


Characterization

Batgirl has officially been represented by four different characters -
and two claimants - beginning with her introduction in 1961.

Betty/Bette Kane

During the Golden Age, a female character was introduced as a love
interest for Robin. Betty Kane as "Bat-Girl" was depicted as the niece
of and Robin-like sidekick to the original Batwoman. In 1964, however,
editor Julius Schwartz asserted that Bat-Girl and other characters in
the Bat-Family should be removed considering the decline in sales and
restored the Batman mythology to its original conception of heroic
vigilantism. During the Crisis on Infinite Earths storyline, Betty
Kane was retconned out of existence.

Mary Elizabeth "Bette" Kane is a reinvented version of the Betty Kane
character during the Golden Age. As her original characterization was
retconned out of existence during the Crisis on Infinite Earths
storyline, a discrepancy arose where her Bat-Girl character had joined
the west coast version of the Teen Titans but simply disappeared. The
character was reintroduced as Bette Kane and the alias of Flamebird.
Following Infinite Crisis, the character's past as Bat-Girl was hinted
at as being a part of continuity. However, that reference included a
revamped origin of the character and it may or may not have been the
current Bette Kane.

Barbara Gordon

During the run of the Batman television series,  editorial was
approached about adding a female character back into the Batman family.
Revising the character history and motivation, Julius Schwartz created
Barbara Gordon. This character held the role of Batgirl from 1967 to
1988 when she was retired by  editorial decision. The character's role
was changed to a paraplegic source of information for all members of the
Batman family and codenamed Oracle. She was later restored as Batgirl
during The New 52 relaunch of the entire  publication line in 2011.

Cassandra Cain

During the same No Man's Land storyline, Cassandra Cain was given the
role of Batgirl under the guidance of Batman and Oracle. Written as the
daughter of assassins David Cain and Lady Shiva, she is trained from
early childhood to read human body language instead of developing verbal
and written communication skills as part of her father's conditioning to
mold her into the world's deadliest assassin. However, after committing
her first murder, she vows to never again use her martial arts prowess
to kill. In 2000, she became the first Batgirl to star in an eponymous
monthly comic book series as well as one of the most prominent
characters of Asian descent to appear in American comics. The series was
canceled in 2006 and Cassandra Cain abandoned the role of Batgirl
shortly thereafter. Years later, Cassandra rejoined the Batman family
under the moniker Blackbat.

Stephanie Brown

Stephanie Brown was formerly known as Spoiler and then as the first
in-continuity female Robin until her apparent death in 2006. Following
her return to comics in 2009, she assumed the role of Batgirl. She
maintained this position until 2011, the relaunch of the  imprint
under The New 52. The character reappeared in the U in Batman #28, as
Spoiler.

Claimants

Helena Bertinelli

For a brief time during 1999's No Man's Land storyline, Helena
Bertinelli assumed the mantle of Batgirl. After violating Batman's code
against extreme violence, she was stripped of the mantle and returned to
her alias of Huntress.

Charlotte "Charlie" Gage-Raliffe

After Cassandra Cain abandoned the role a mystery character appeared as
the new Batgirl in the Birds of Prey comic. Possessing superpowers,
the teen claimed the empty mantle in an attempt to honor the character.
However, Barbara Gordon quickly dissuaded the teen from continuing in
the role. Charlie Gage-Raliffe acquiesced, but modified her costume
and changed her name to Misfit.


Cultural impact

While Barbara Gordon and Cassandra Cain have both been the subject of
academic analysis regarding the portrayal of women in comics, commentary
on Barbara Gordon's Batgirl has focused on her character's connection to
the Women's liberation movement, doctoral degree and career as a
librarian, while analysis of Cassandra Cain's Batgirl has focused on the
character's double minority status as a woman and a person of color.
Since her debut in  publication, and fueled by her adaptation
into the Batman television series in 1967, Barbara Gordon's Batgirl
has been listed among fictional characters that are regarded as cultural
icons. Author Brian Cronin, in Was Superman A Spy?: And Other Comic
Book Legends Revealed (2009) notes that following her 1967 debut,
"Batgirl was soon popular enough to appear regularly over the next two
decades and Yvonne Craig certainly made an impression on many viewers
with her one season portraying young Ms. Gordon." In 2011, IGN
ranked Barbara Gordon 17th in the Top 100 Comic Books Heroes.
Cassandra Cain's Batgirl has become one of the most prominent Asian
characters to appear in American comic books, and her understated
sexuality is notable as being contrary to the common sexual
objectification of female characters, especially those of Asian descent.

Feminist interpretations

In The Supergirls: Fashion, Feminism, Fantasy, and the History of Comic
Book Heroines (2009), author Mike Madrid states that what set Barbara
Gordon as Batgirl apart from other female characters was her motivation
for crime-fighting. Unlike Batwoman who preceded her, "she wears his
symbol on her chest, but she is not his girlfriend or faithful
handmaiden." Because of the fact she does not pursue a romantic
interest in Batman, "Batgirl is a female Batman can actually regard as a
brilliant peer and a partner in the war on crime, the same way he would
a male." Historian Peter Sanderson observed that Barbara Gordon's
Batgirl reflected the Women's liberation movement of the 1960s. In
the 1980s, Barbara Kesel, after writing a complaint to  over
the negative portrayal of female characters, was given the opportunity
to write for Barbara Gordon in Detective Comics. Robin Anne Reid, in
Women in Science Fiction and Fantasy: Overviews (2009) wrote that
"Kesel's version of Batgirl established her as a character separate from
Batman and Robin: a woman motivated to do what men do, but alone and in
her own way. Her Secret Origins (1987) and Batgirl Special (1988)
countered the victimized and objectified presentation of Barbara
Gordon/Batgirl in Alan Moore's acclaimed The Killing Joke (1988)."
She notes that Kesel's interpretation of the character emphasized her
intelligence, technological skill, and ability to overcome fear. Gail
Simone included the character's paralysis in a list of "major female
characters that had been killed, mutilated, and depowered", dubbing the
phenomenon "Women in Refrigerators" in reference to a 1994 Green Lantern
story where the title character discovers his girlfriend's mutilated
body in his refrigerator. Simone highlighted the gender difference
regarding the treatment of Batman and Batgirl regarding paralysis by
stating that "[b]oth had their backs broken [Batman broke his in a
dramatic Batcave confrontation with the villain Bane; Batgirl broke hers
when she was ambushed in her home and shot in the spine by the Joker,
never given a chance to fight]. Less than a year later, Batman was fine.
Batgirl—now named Oracle—was in a wheelchair and remained so for many
years.”

In Superheroes and Superegos: Analyzing the Minds Behind the Masks
(2010), author Sharon Packer wrote that "[a]nyone who feels that
feminist critics overreacted to [Gordon's] accident is advised to
consult the source material" calling the work "sadistic to the
core." Brian Cronin noted that "[many] readers felt the violence
towards Barbara Gordon was too much, and even Moore, in retrospect, has
expressed his displeasure with how the story turned out." Jeffrey A.
Brown, author of Dangerous Curves: Action Heroines, Gender, Fetishism,
and Popular Culture (2011) noted The Killing Joke as an example of
the "inherent misogyny of the male-dominated comic book industry" in
light of the "relatively unequal violence [female characters] are
subjected to." While male characters may be critically injured or
killed, they are more than likely to be returned to their original
conception, while female characters are more likely to receive permanent
damage. Reid states that although speculation behind the editorial
decision to allow the paralysis of the character to become permanent
included the idea she had become outdated, "if audiences had grown tired
of Batgirl, it was not because she was a bad character but because she
had been written badly."

Despite views that present the character's Batgirl persona as a symbol
of female empowerment, a long-held criticism is that she was originally
conceived as an uninspired variation of Batman "rather than standing
alone as leader, such as Wonder Woman" who had no pre-existing male
counterpart. In analyzing stereotypes in gender, Jackie Marsh noted
that male superheroes (such as Batman) are depicted as hyper-masculine
and anti-social, "while female superheroes are reduced to a childlike
status by their names" such as the Batgirl character.

Representation for librarians

In The Image and Role of the Librarian (2002), Wendi Arant and Candace
R. Benefiel argue that Batgirl's portrayal as a librarian is considered
to be significant to the profession, in that it is represented as a
valuable and honorable career. Even in light of the fact that the
character abandons it in order to run for United States Congress,
Barbara Gordon is seen as being given a "career switch that even most
librarians would consider a step up." In the essay "Librarians,
Professionalism and Image: Stereotype and Reality" (2007), Abigail
Luthmann views the character less favorably, stating that "[t]he
unassuming role of librarian is used as a low-visibility disguise for
her crime-fighting alter-ego, and while her information-locating skills
may have been useful to her extra-curricular activities no direct
examples are given."

Representation for Asian Americans

The Cassandra Cain version of Batgirl, depicted as a biracial character
(Half White and half Chinese), is notable as one of the most prominent
characters of Asian descent to appear in American comic books. Jeffrey
A. Brown states that while her ethnicity is rarely mentioned in the
comic books, Asian women have had a long history in comics of being
portrayed as martial artists and are often exploited as sex objects.
However, in the case of Batgirl, "Cassandra's racial identity is treated
more implicitly than explicitly. Her costume design actually conceals
her entire body so that while in her guise as Batgirl her ethnicity is
completely unapparent." The fact that her sexuality is also understated
represents a shift away from the typical portrayls of women, and Asian
women in particular. The most controversial aspect of her character came
about during the One Year Later event, when she is reintroduced as a
villain. The abrupt shift in her character brought about negative
criticism from readership. When questioned about the change in
characterization, writer Adam Beechen stated: "They didn't present me
with a rationale as to why Cassandra was going to change, or a
motivating factor. That was left for me to come up with and them to
approve. And we did that. But as far as to why the editors and writers
and whoever else made the decision decided that was a good direction, I
honestly couldn't answer."


In other media

[Yvonne Craig as Batgirl in 1967.|alt=A black-and-white portrait of
Yvonne Craig as Batgirl, wearing a mask that covers the top half of her
face, though with eyes and nose exposed. She is also wearing a hood that
has bat-like ears extending up on each side of her head.] Portrayed by
Yvonne Craig, the character's first adaptation outside of comic books
took place in the third season of Batman (1967). Les Daniels, in
Batman: The Complete History (2004) wrote that the goal of ABC was to
"attract new audience members, especially idealistic young girls and
less high-minded older men." According to Craig: "I used to think the
reason they hired me was because they knew I could ride my own
motorcycle ... I realized they hired me because I had a cartoon voice."
A shared criticism of Batgirl and other female superheroes in television
at the time (such as Wonder Woman and the Bionic Woman), is that she was
not allowed to engage in hand-to-hand combat on screen. As such,
"her fights were choreographed carefully to imitate the moves of a
Broadway showgirl through the use of a straight kick to her opponent's
face rather than the type of kick a martial artist would use."
However, Craig has also stated: "I meet young women who say Batgirl was
their role model ... They say its because it was the first time they
ever felt girls could do the same things guys could do, and sometimes
better. I think that’s lovely." During the early 1970s, Craig
portrayed Batgirl once again in a public service announcement to
advocate equal pay for women.

Since Batman, the character has had a long history of appearances in
television and other media. As Batgirl, Barbara Gordon plays a
supporting role in a string of animated series, voiced by Jane Webb in
The Batman/Superman Hour (1968), Melendy Britt in The New Adventures
of Batman (1977), Melissa Gilbert in Batman: The Animated Series
(1992), Tara Strong in The New Batman Adventures (1997), Danielle
Judovits in The Batman (2004), and Mae Whitman in Batman: The Brave
and the Bold (2008). In 2012, Batgirl starred alongside Supergirl
and Wonder Girl in Super Best Friends Forever, a series of shorts
developed by Lauren Faust for the  Nation block on Cartoon
Network. Barbara Gordon makes two cameo appearances in the first
season of the animated series Young Justice, and is added as a
recurring character in season two where she has adopted her Batgirl
persona. Dina Meyer starred as Barbara Gordon in the television series
Birds of Prey (2002). Although this series focused on her role as
Oracle, the series included flash-backs of the character's history as
Batgirl. In the film Batman & Robin, Alicia Silverstone played a
variation of the character: Barbara Wilson, Alfred Pennyworth's niece.

In addition to live-action television and animation, the character has
appeared in a number of video games included in the Batman franchise.
She appears in The Adventures of Batman & Robin and Batman: Rise of
Sin Tzu voiced by Tara Strong. She also appears in LEGO Batman for
the PC, PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Wii, DS, and PlayStation
Portable. In Scribblenauts Unmasked: A  Adventure,
Batgirl appears when Maxwell heads to Arkham Asylum to battle The
Scarecrow. It is never revealed which incarnation this is, but judging
from her exposed, blonde hair, it can be assumed that this is the
Stephanie Brown incarnation. The other three Batgirls (Bette Kane,
Barbara Gordon and Cassandra Cain) can be spawned and all three are
playable in the Wii U version. The most recent video game featuring
Batgirl is Batman: Arkham Knight, available for PlayStation 4, Xbox
One and PC. The developers created a side story named "A Matter of
Family" in which the player is able to control Batgirl. Robin is also
playable, but only in fight scenes. The plot tells about Batgirl
entering an amusement park where Joker maintains her father,
commissioner James Gordon, captive, as well as other cops. Gotham's
Ben McKenzie did tease about seeing Batgirl in child form in the
series.


Collected editions

  Title                                     Material collected                                                                                 Publication date   ISBN
  ----------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------
  Barbara Gordon
  BATGIRL: YEAR ONE                         Batgirl: Year One #1–9 (2003 mini-series)                                                        February 2003      
  BATMAN: BATGIRL                           One-shot special                                                                                   July 1997          
  BATMAN: THE CAT AND THE BAT               Batman Confidential #17-21                                                                       2009               
  SHOWCASE PRESENTS: BATGIRL                Various titles                                                                                     July 2007          
  BATGIRL: THE GREATEST STORIES EVER TOLD   Various titles                                                                                     December 2010      
  BATGIRL VOL. 1: THE DARKEST REFLECTION    Batgirl (vol. 4) #1-6                                                                            July 2012          
  BATGIRL VOL. 2: KNIGHTFALL DESCENDS       Batgirl (vol. 4) #7-13; 0                                                                        February 2013      
  BATGIRL VOL. 3: DEATH OF THE FAMILY       Batgirl (vol. 4) #14-19, Batgirl Annual #1; Batman (vol. 2) #17 and part of Young Romance #1   October 2013       
  BATGIRL VOL. 4: WANTED                    Batgirl (vol. 4) #20-26; '' Batman:'' The Dark Knight #23.1 - Ventriloquist                      May 2014           
  BATGIRL VOL. 5: DEADLINE                  Batgirl (vol. 4) #27-34, Batgirl Annual #2; '' Batgirl:'' Future's End #1                        December 2014      
  BATGIRL VOL. 1: BATGIRL OF BURNSIDE       Batgirl (vol. 4) #35-40, part of Secret Origins (vol. 2) #10;                                    June 2015          
  BATGIRL VOL. 2: FAMILY BUSINESS           Batgirl (vol. 4) #41-45, Annual #3, Sneak Peek story from Convergence: Infinity Inc. #2          February 2016      
  BATGIRL VOL. 3                            Batgirl (vol. 4) #46-50                                                                          August 2016        
  BATGIRL/ROBIN: YEAR ONE                   Reprints the Batgirl: Year One and Robin: Year One miniseries                                  June 2013          
  Cassandra Cain
  BATGIRL: SILENT RUNNING                   Batgirl #1–6                                                                                     March 2001         
  Batgirl Vol. 1: Silent Knight           Batgirl #1-12                                                                                    January 2016       
  BATGIRL: A KNIGHT ALONE                   Batgirl #7–11, #13–14                                                                            November 2001      
  Batgirl: Cassandra Cain Vol. 2          Batgirl #13-25                                                                                   July 2016          
  BATGIRL: DEATH WISH                       Batgirl #17–20, #22–23, #25                                                                      August 2003        
  BATGIRL: FISTS OF FURY                    Batgirl #15–16, #21, #26–28                                                                      May 2004           
  ROBIN/BATGIRL: FRESH BLOOD                Robin #132–133; Batgirl #58–59                                                                 October 2005       
  BATGIRL: KICKING ASSASSINS                Batgirl #60–64                                                                                   January 2006       
  BATGIRL: DESTRUCTION'S DAUGHTER           Batgirl #65–73                                                                                   September 2006     
  BATGIRL: REDEMPTION                       Batgirl #1–6 (2008 miniseries)                                                                   June 2009          
  Stephanie Brown
  BATGIRL: BATGIRL RISING                   Batgirl (vol. 3) #1–8                                                                            September 2010     
  BATGIRL: THE FLOOD                        Batgirl (vol. 3) #9–14                                                                           May 2011           
  BATGIRL: THE LESSON                       Batgirl (vol. 3) #15-24                                                                          November 2011      


Other collected editions

-   Batman: Bruce Wayne – Murderer?_ (Batgirl #24)
-   Batman: Bruce Wayne – Fugitive Vol. One (Batgirl #27 and #29)
-   Batman: Bruce Wayne – Fugitive Vol. Three (Batgirl #33)
-   Batman War Games: Act One - Outbreak (Batgirl #55)
-   Batman War Games: Act Two - Tides (Batgirl #56)
-   Batman War Games: Act Three - Endgame (Batgirl #57)

