The BATMAN OF EARTH-TWO is a parallel version of the 
superhero, who was introduced after  created Earth-Two, a
parallel world that was retroactively established as the home of
characters whose adventures had been published in the Golden Age of
comic books. This allowed creators to publish Batman comic books while
being able to disregard Golden Age stories, solving an incongruity, as
Batman had been published as a single ongoing incarnation since
inception.

The character history of the Earth-Two Batman accordingly adopts all of
the earliest stories featuring the character from the 1930s and 1940s,
while the adventures of the then-mainstream Silver Age Batman (who lived
on "Earth-One") begin later in time and with certain elements of his
origin retold. Each were depicted as separate, though parallel,
individuals living in their respective universes, with the "older"
Earth-Two character eventually reaching his retirement and death.

A parallel to this character is introduced in Justice Society of
America Annual #1 (2008) entitled "Earth-2" where the Post Crisis
Earth-2 is fully introduced. The most notable difference between
Pre-Crisis Earth-Two Wayne and his newer Post-Crisis Earth-2 incarnation
is that the Post-Crisis Earth-2 Joker is suggested to have killed Wayne
which led the Joker to learn the real identities of Robin and the
Huntress.

A new parallel to this character was introduced in the 2012 Earth-2
series who remains alive and is out "to protect his only surviving
family" at any cost.


Fictional character biography

Childhood and early history

Batman's origin and history is essentially similar to the Earth-One
version of the character, but events unfold in more of a real-time
fashion. For example, the Batman makes his debut in 1939, meets Robin,
the Joker, Catwoman and Clayface at various points in 1940, the Penguin
in 1941, Two-Face in 1942, etc. These dates reflect the publishing dates
of the original stories, rather than taking the Earth-One and Modern Age
approach of keeping the characters eternally youthful.

-   Bruce Wayne was born in Gotham City circa 1915-1916.
-   Bruce's parents, Thomas and Martha Wayne, were killed when he was
    eight years old by Joe Chill, in 1924. This is different from the
    later Earth-One history where Martha dies from a heart attack soon
    after Thomas is shot to death.
-   As on Earth-One, Earth-Two Wayne is raised by his father's brother,
    Phillip Wayne, though never recovers from his parent's murder which
    is further retconned in the Post-Crisis history established by Frank
    Miller's Batman: Year One, where Phillip is eliminated and Alfred
    the butler largely raises Bruce. In the Golden Age and Earth-Two
    reality, Wayne and Alfred meet for the first time in 1943, after
    Batman has already met Robin (and in fact, this version of Alfred is
    Alfred Beagle - his originally published name which was kept for the
    Earth-Two distinction).
-   After a period of training, a young Bruce Wayne becomes Batman. His
    first printed story is "The Case of the Chemical Syndicate",
    although story content implies that this was not his first mission.
-   Bruce Wayne meets eight-year-old Dick Grayson, following the murder
    of his parents by a gangster who he overheard. Grayson eventually
    takes the identity of Robin.
-   Superman and Batman become lifelong friends. Unlike the antagonistic
    friendship of their Post-Crisis incarnations, they get along right
    away and often team up. Along with Kal-L, Batman participates in the
    Justice Society and the war-time only All-Star Squadron.
-   Batman dies in 1979.

Divergence with Earth-One

At the dawn of the Silver Age of comics,  decided to
reintroduce several of their Golden Age superheroes, all of whom had
ceased publication several years earlier. Flash and Green Lantern were
reimagined as Barry Allen and Hal Jordan. Superman, Wonder Woman
and Batman, having been continuously published since their Golden Age
introductions, were not given any reimaginings (although much about the
mythos of each had evolved slowly over the years). It was later revealed
that the current heroes live on a parallel world to the Golden Age
heroes: The newer Silver Age heroes are on "Earth One", while the older
Golden Age characters reside on "Earth Two" (the numbering does not
indicate any hierarchy of parallel Earths, only the number by which they
were discovered). When Barry Allen met Jay Garrick, it meant there
were two Flashes, two Green Lanterns, two Supermen and two Batmen.
Unlike the Silver Age versions of the Flash and Green Lantern, who had
entirely different secret identities from their Golden Age counterparts,
the Batman and Superman of each world were both Bruce Wayne and Clark
Kent, respectively. There is no clear demarcation between when the
stories of one Batman ends and the other begins; some tales from the
mid-1950s fit comfortably onto Earth One, while some stories as late as
the early-1960s seem more appropriate for the Earth Two version.  has
mandated that only the Earth One Batman wore a yellow oval around the
bat symbol on his chest, making 1964 the fixed year in which all Batman
stories were set on Earth-One, although there are several instances
where this is contradicted in-story.Batman in earth 3 is Harvey Dent.


The Earth-Two Wayne made several different character evolutions from the
mainstream Batman, as the Earth-Two Bruce accepts his one-time adversary
Catwoman as his true love and shares his secret identity with her after
her memory is restored of her real life. The Earth-Two Wayne and
Catwoman, Selina Kyle, later marry, after she had voluntarily served
prison time for her crimes. They have a daughter, Helena Wayne, the
Huntress, and the family resides at Wayne Manor where Bruce devotes
himself and his fortune to philanthropy. By the early 1960s, Wayne has
retired as Batman with Robin taking over crimefighting in Gotham City.
He even accepted Wayne's position in the reformed Justice Society.
Wayne is later called out of retirement by the ancient god, Mercury to
help defeat King Kull along with other superheroes of Pre-Crisis
Earth-Two, Earth-One and Earth-S. Several years after, that he again
dons his costume to answer the Batsignal when Robin is away from Gotham
City, but this adventure ends in tragedy as Batman's kick causes a
criminal to fire his gun wildly, striking and killing Selina Wayne.
Bruce burned his cape and cowl that night, swearing to never wear it
again. His years of civic volunteerism results in him being named to
replace the retiring James Gordon as Police Commissioner. In this
capacity, Wayne is soon mind-controlled by the Psycho Pirate. Resulting
in his declaring the current roster of the Justice Society of America to
be outlaws and he attempts to arrest them. Once freed from the Psycho
Pirate's control, Wayne clears the JSA of all trumped-up charges.

The elder Earth-Two Wayne is eventually coaxed out of retirement for one
last mission as Batman when a thief, Bill Jensen, is magically empowered
by a sorcerer, Frederick Vaux (possibly the Earth-Two analogue to Felix
Faust), and attacks Gotham City. As when he was eight, Earth-Two Wayne
faces an overpowering criminal with a weapon that is greater than
himself, though this time it is magical bolts rather than bullets.
Already dying of cancer from his years of pipe smoking (as stated in
Brave and the Bold #197), Wayne decides to fight to the death against
Jensen, who bears a furious grudge against Wayne, stopping his threat at
the cost of his own life. In the aftermath of the battle, the public
learns that Wayne was Batman's secret identity. The Earth-Two Doctor
Fate later removes the memory of the battle from the consciousness of
the general public, so as to protect the secret identities of Robin and
the Huntress, which were also thus exposed, and causing everyone to
believe instead that Wayne died of cancer at home on the same day that
Batman died.

Several years after Bruce Wayne's death, Batman's diary was discovered
and made public (as described in the limited series America vs. the
Justice Society). In it, he charged the JSA with treason, being spies
for Hitler, resulting in the team being put on trial. It is ultimately
revealed that this was a hoax on Batman's part, designed to set a trap
for a longtime Justice Society foe, Per Degaton. Knowing he was dying
and would not be alive to combat Degaton's as yet unrevealed scheme,
Wayne fabricated the treason charges so as to bring about a
reexamination of the JSA's history, giving them clues as how to defeat
the time traveling villain. It would prove to be the Earth Two Batman's
final case, solved from the grave. Professor Zee, the scientist who had
invented the Time Machine (and someone Degaton shot), appeared from it,
which he had used to transport himself 40 years into the future, and
accused Degaton of murder. Degaton then shot himself in the head.

As a tribute to this version of the character, his final formal
'appearance' was in Secret Origins vol. 2, #6 (Sept. 1986) in the
story "Secret Origins Starring the Golden Age Batman" by writer Roy
Thomas and artists Marshall Rogers and Terry Austin, a retelling of the
Earth-Two Batman's origin.

In the limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths, the Anti-Monitor
destroys most universes, reducing the universe to the anti-matter
universe and a single positive matter universe. Earth-Two "never
existed" in this new universe's history, which retroactively removes the
Earth-Two Batman from history, blending elements of his past with that
of the Earth-One Batman's, effectively creating a Batman with a new
modern continuity. {{-}}

One Year Later

During Infinite Crisis, senior members of the Justice Society regain
some memories of Earth-Two's previous existence. One year later, when
the Gentleman Ghost attacks the JSA using powers of limited control over
the spirits of the dead, Jakeem Thunder and the Thunderbolt are assisted
in battle by the spirits of various deceased JSA members and allies,
including the Batman of Earth-Two. Although Jakeem is confused by his
presence, noting that Batman is not dead, the Thunderbolt tells him not
to worry about it.

The New 52

Earth 2 writer James Robinson has stated The New 52 (a reboot of the 
Comics universe) Earth 2 series is set on a new, "reimagined" version
of Pre Crisis Earth-Two with the elder originally "Golden Age" heroes of
Jay Garrick, Alan Scott and Al Pratt now starting in modern day, instead
of World War 2 era and Earth-2 Superman, Batman and Wonder Woman first
appearing in the last five years. The New 52 Earth-2 Batman
sacrifices himself alongside his Earth's Superman and Wonder Woman
against the invasion forces of Apokolips.

The new Earth-2 Batman is now Thomas Wayne (father to Bruce Wayne). This
corrupt doctor was working for the Mafia in Gotham City, until a rigged
killing enabled him to go undercover at the Crime Alley. The original
Batman (Bruce Wayne) discovered his father's imposture and disassociated
himself with Thomas. Following Bruce Wayne's death, Thomas Wayne became
the second Batman. As Batman, Thomas Wayne uses Hourman's Miraclo pills.

Series editor Pat McCallum states of the new Earth-2 Batman's
personality "Who will Batman kill to save his own daughter?” "Right out
of the gate that should tell you we’re dealing with a different kind of
Dark Knight here. More ruthless, dangerous…the costume is familiar and
yeah, there is a Wayne under the mask, but we’re looking at a man
desperate to save the only family he has left. 'Earth' 2 is about to
become a very bad place to be a bad guy.”


In other media

Video games

-   Two Batman Earth-Two skins will be downloadable content for the
    newly released game Batman: Arkham Origins, one based on the
    current comic line, and one pre-New 52. Both will be available in
    the Infinite Earths skin pack.

