BELYLLIOTH is a fictional demon published by . She debuted in
Artemis: Requiem #1 (June, 1996), and was created by William
Messner-Loebs and Ed Benes.


Fictional character biography

Belyllioth started as a demon General living in the portion of Hell
ruled over by the demon Dalkriig-Hath. When Wonder Woman entered this
realm looking for her fallen sister Artemis, Belyllioth attempted to
capture the intruder. Failing to do so, Dalkriig-Hath saw this as a
failure and planned on publicly humiliating her by torture as an example
to the other demons who may fail in their tasks. During this time though
Dalkriig-Hath's newest bride Artemis and Wonder Woman were watching the
public spectacle from a nearby building.

Diana managed to stop the executioner from torturing Belyllioth but was
soon made a victim herself by the large number of demons faithful to
Dalkriig-Hath. Artemis then joined the fight by freeing Belyllioth from
her shackles, allowing her and her loyal Myrmidon demons to take part in
the battle also. Grateful to Artemis and Diana for freeing her,
Belyllioth held back Dalkriig-Hath's forces until they could safely
escape. Following their example, Belyllioth and her minions retreated to
safety also.

Opting to bide her time and accumulate more demons to help her gain
revenge against Dalkriig-Hath, Belyllioth was surprised to discover that
a few months after their escape that Artemis had managed to kill
Dalkriig-Hath in the mortal world. She thanked Artemis and quickly tried
to assume lordship of the realm. Artemis' only stipulation for not
standing in Belyllioth's way from doing so was that Belyllioth release
the souls of 5 members of the demon hunting group The Hellenders who had
died battling Dalkriig-Hath and the life of a woman who had committed
suicide and her daughter. She agreed and they were given life again.

Belyllioth soon discovered though that holding on to her newfound title
would be hard to do. The remaining 12 Princes of Hell had also
discovered that Dalkriig-Hath had been destroyed and each tried to take
over his portion of hell for themselves. This caused a huge war to take
place that seemed to be a losing battle.

[Artemis agrees to aid Belyllioth. Art by Ed Benes.]Realizing that as
Dalkriig-Hath's widow Artemis was by rights entitled to become his
replacement as ruler, Belyllioth traveled to the mortal realm seeking
Artemis' aid. Artemis agreed to help Belyllioth's forces as the
Underworld battle caused serious after effects in the mortal world.
Telling Belyllioth that she did not want to rule her dead husband's
realm, Artemis hatched a plan.

Disguised as Artemis, Belyllioth presented herself before the 12 Princes
of Hell demanding that she be allowed rule. They grudgingly accepted and
magically gave her all rights to the title of the 13th Prince of Hell.
After the ceremony was ended Belyllioth revealed her true form, which
angered the 12 other rulers. As they could not refute their established
blessing, they were forced to accept Belyllioth as a fellow ruler.

They did promise Artemis though that for her treachery that they would
seek revenge against her if she should ever enter Hell again.
Fortunately for her, Belyllioth now considers Artemis to be a great ally
for helping her get the 13th throne and will help protect her when
needed.


Powers and abilities

Belyllioth is now a high ranking demon lord, commanding 1/13th of the
demons of hell. She is also a skilled sorcerer and warrior.


Bibliography

-   Artemis: Requiem mini-series (1996)
-   Wonder Woman Annual (vol. 2) #6 (1997)

