BIG BARDA is a fictional comic book superheroine appearing in books
published by . She first appeared in Mister Miracle #4
(October 1971), and was created by Jack Kirby.

In a reversal of the stereotype associated with female characters at the
time of her creation, Barda is physically more powerful than her
husband, Mister Miracle, and very protective of him.

Jack Kirby based Barda's physical appearance on Lainie Kazan, who had
recently appeared topless in Playboy. Mark Evanier, Kirby's
assistant on the Fourth World comics, has stated, "Jack based some of
his characters (not all) on people in his life or in the news... the
characterization between Scott 'Mister Miracle' Free and Barda was based
largely—though with tongue in cheek—on the interplay between Kirby and
his wife Roz." Big Barda was ranked 75th in Comics Buyer's Guide's
"100 Sexiest Women in Comics" list.


Fictional character biography

Barda is a member of the race known as the New Gods. She was born about
250 years ago, on Apokolips. Her mother was named Big Breeda, but Barda
was taken away from her at an early age to be trained as a warrior. She
was a product of Granny Goodness' Home for Orphaned Youth. Granny's
motto is "Die for Darkseid" (the planet's evil ruler). Granny groomed
Barda to one day lead the Female Fury Battalion, a ferocious pack of
warrior women. However, during a raid, Barda meets Scott Free,
Darkseid's adopted son, and, sensing a peace about him, fell in love.

Barda risks her own safety to work with the rebel cell led by the New
God Himon. This comes directly after the murder of most of Himon's cell
by the local authority, Wonderful Williki. This includes one of Barda's
people, Auralie, who was tortured to death for the 'crime' of dancing.
Moments later, Himon kills Willik with a bomb. Barda, her Furies, Himon
and Metron assist Scott in escaping Apokolips. Darkseid himself calls
for Scott to return but doesn't actually stop him, as he wishes Scott to
leave so a war with New Genesis can start. Barda doesn't leave at that
point because she is not emotionally ready. Eventually, Barda
completely turns her back on Granny Goodness and came to Earth
herself. Scott has become an escape artist called Mister Miracle, and
is teamed with Oberon, his diminutive manager. Oberon and Barda become
close friends. For a while, Barda's Furies assist Scott in his
showmanship efforts but they return to Apokolips by themselves. Scott
and Barda are married by Scott's father, the Highfather of New
Genesis.

For a number of years Barda follows Scott and Oberon on tour. Eventually
they retire as superheroes and move to Bailey, New Hampshire.
However, despite their best attempts, a normal life eludes them.
Disasters plague them; Barda, Scott, and Oberon leave Bailey and move to
a loft in Greenwich Village. Barda forms a defense-training program for
women called the New Female Furies.

Justice League

Though naïve regarding Earth customs, Barda relishes her roles of wife
and housekeeper. However, when duty calls she never hesitates to assume
the posture of a warrior; and when Scott joins the Justice League, Barda
participates in several missions. In one instance, while she odd
training Fire, her weapon, the Mega-Rod, is stolen from her car. With
the assistance of her husband and the Huntress, she gets it back, but
not before many innocent people are killed by its wielder, who was
unable to resist the corrupting influence of the Apokoliptian
technology. Barda also led a JLA mission to rescue her husband after he
was lost in space. The mission was a result of Manga Khan selling Scott
to Granny Goodness. Her teammates included Martian Manhunter, Rocket
Red, and G'nort. In an attempt to dissuade their successful pursuit,
Manga Khan hired Lobo, paying him in dolphin feed, to kill them. He
almost does, before Barda teleports him to a random location, that being
ten feet behind Guy Gardner's skull. The repercussions of that literal
meeting of the minds would last for years.

For a time, Barda mourns Scott, believing him slain in a battle with
Despero. But out r was a robot double that was destroyed, as part of a
plan by Manga Khan.

After their time with the JLI, the two leave Earth for New Genesis.
However, they soon return and take up temporary residence aboard the
Justice League Refuge. During this period, the couple separate briefly
due to Scott's lack of consideration for her feelings. Barda perishes,
but is reborn via Scott's temporary access to great cosmic power.

Barda has served as a member of the JLA in her own right as well. At
Takion's order, she and fellow New God Orion were sent as agents of New
Genesis to serve on the team. Takion predicted that the Earth faced a
grave threat. Their mission is to help mobilize Earth's heroes
against the omnipotent Mageddon. Over time, they become involved with
several other JLA missions. Adam Strange, needing help with an alien
invasion, enslaves the JLA as part of a bluff. The League works for
days, turning the planet into a giant teleportation beam. The aliens are
sent off to the prison planet of Takron-Galtos, which Barda had
mentioned several times during the ordeal. In another instance, Barda is
badly wounded fighting the Queen Bee, a member of the newly reformed
Injustice League. Once Mageddon is defeated, Barda and Orion resign from
the JLA.

After the League

Barda and Scott then reside in the suburbs of Connecticut and are active
adventurers. Barda never hesitates to lend a hand to her friends
when her power and expertise are needed.

Barda accompanies Batman, Superman, and Wonder Woman to Apokolips to
rescue Supergirl from Darkseid's clutches, and accepts an invitation
from Oracle to become the heavy-hitter on the Birds of Prey.

A similar-looking character named Little Barda appeared as a member of
the Teen Titans in 52 #21; the character leaves the group in the same
issue. Her relationship to Big Barda is unknown, though she escaped from
Apokolips with Power Boy.

In a confrontation with the Secret Six, she engagedr Knockout, another
ex-Fury, in hand-to-hand combat. Although the fight is long and
continues in the midst of other larger concerns for her team, it ends in
a draw.

Big Barda is killed in the first issue of Death of the New Gods; her
funeral occurs in the second issue of the series. Infinity-Man is later
revealed as the killer. He had been slaughtering all the 'New Gods' in
the name of restarting a new age of deities.

Final Crisis #7 depicts Barda standing alongside Lightray and
Highfather in front of a reincarnated New Genesis.

The New 52

In The New 52 (a reboot of the  Universe), Big Barda and Scott are
seen on Earth 2. They are later seen with many of the comrades in
Supertown.


Powers and abilities

Barda is a New God, a race of people who evolved into genetically
advanced beings thanks to their proximity to the Source. As such, she
possesses immense superhuman strength that puts her into the same
strength class as Superman and Wonder Woman. She is also highly
resistant to blunt force trauma, temperature and pressure extremes, and
is partially bulletproof. Her Apokoliptan physiology prevents her from
aging and makes her immune to disease. She is a master combatant, having
been trained in all forms of Apokiliptian warfare. Her skill and
strength is such that she has fought Wonder Woman to a draw.

Barda also wields a high tech weapon of Apokoliptan origins called a
"Mega-Rod." The rod is capable of producing extremely powerful
concussive bolts capable of felling beings as durable as Superman,
allows Barda to teleport herself and others long distances, can increase
gravitational forces, and can be used as an indestructible club in melee
combat. Barda also has access to other forms of Fourth World
technology, including Aero-Discs that allow her to defy gravity and fly,
Apokoliptan battle armor that augments her already impressive
durability, and a Mother Box, which she can use to create Boom Tubes for
transportation over long distances and between dimensions.


Other versions

Barda appears in the limited series Kingdom Come by Mark Waid and Alex
Ross, which is set in an alternate future timeline of  continuity.
Orion has overthrown Darkseid and is the reluctant ruler of Apokolips.
Barda (now sporting an eye-patch) and Scott Free work to teach the
"lowlies" to think for themselves, with Orion's approval. The two have a
daughter, Avia, who deploys a mega-rod and wears an outfit that combines
elements of those of her parents.

In Frank Miller's The Dark Knight Strikes Again, as America descends
into anarchy and chaos, a former porn star called Hot Gates (a reference
to Miller's 300 comic) takes up the mantle of "Big Barda" in order to
declare herself dictator of Columbus, Ohio.

Superman/Batman #24 depicts "Big Bard", the male version of Big Barda
from a reverse gender universe, who is married to Miss Miracle.

In JLA: Another Nail, Barda becomes a Green Lantern Corps member,
although her power ring having fused to her Mother Box has made her a
rather unusual Green Lantern. Mister Miracle's consciousness also
inhabits the ring and he can project himself as a spectral green figure.

Barda appears in two graphic novels that  loosely based on the
animated series Batman Beyond, Justice League Beyond and Superman
Beyond: Man of Tomorrow, where, as in the animated series, she belongs
to the Justice League during the tenure of Terry McGinnis as Batman.
Justice League Beyond contains a separate section at the end titled
"Beyond: Origins" that briefly summarized the origins of Warhawk
(Chapter 1), Aquagirl (Chapter 2), and Barda (Chapter 3). Chapter 3
gives an origin story for Barda similar to her canonical mainstream
comic book continuity storyline, but sets the events later so that in
the Beyond universe she was born later and didn't join the Justice
League until Superman had already visibly aged and begun wearing the
black and white costume he sports in the Beyond stories.

In the  Bombshells continuity, "Big" Barda Free is a member
of Amanda Waller's Bombshells project. She is also in a romantic
relationship with Kimiyo Hoshi.


In other media

Television

[Big Barda in the Superman: The Animated Series and Justice League
Unlimited (left) and Batman Beyond (right).]

-   Big Barda makes a cameo at the end of the second part of the
    Superman: The Animated Series episode, "Apokolips...Now!". When
    Orion appears to declare Earth under the protection of New Genesis,
    she can be seen in the background as part of the defensive army in
    her trademark battle armor.
-   In the two-part episode titled "The Call" of the animated series
    Batman Beyond, Barda (voiced by Farrah Forke) is a member of the
    Justice League forty years in the future, along with Warhawk,
    Superman, a new Green Lantern, Aquagirl, and others. At Superman's
    request, Batman investigates the members of the Justice League to
    find a traitor who has been trying to kill off the members one at
    a time. Barda at first does not trust Terry and treats him with
    nothing short of contempt, but after he saves her and the rest of
    the Justice League Unlimited from Starro, the one responsible for
    framing Superman for the attempted murders, he gains her respect
    and trust.
-   Big Barda appears in the Justice League Unlimited episode "The
    Ties That Bind," voiced again by Forke. Her physique is
    uncharacteristically slender in this appearance. In the episode,
    Granny Goodness kidnaps Oberon and forces Barda and Mister Miracle
    to rescue Kalibak from the clutches of Virman Vundabar. With the
    help of Flash, they rescue Kalibak and trick Granny Goodness into
    revealing Oberon's whereabouts. After Oberon is safe, the couple
    leave Apokolips, but not before Barda punches Granny Goodness in
    the face.
-   Big Barda appears in the teaser of the Batman: The Brave and the
    Bold episode "Last Bat on Earth!", voiced by Diane Delano. Mister
    Miracle mentions her while he and Batman are chained to a death trap
    event for charity. After the event, when Mister Miracle brags about
    his escape, Barda replies, "You know what would be a real miracle?
    If you would finally clean out the garage," before walking away; to
    which Batman responds, "Guess that's one trap you can't escape
    from." She also has a non-speaking cameo appearance in part 2 of the
    episode "The Siege of Starro!", among the heroes possessed by
    Starro, and later, she appears among the heroes that have already
    broken free of Starro's mind control.

Film

-   Big Barda appears in the animated film Superman/Batman:
    Apocalypse, voiced by Julianne Grossman. She retains her
    characteristic muscular physique in her design, albeit less bulky
    and more slender, with softened and more feminine facial features.
    As the former captain of Granny Goodness' Furies, Barda assists
    Superman, Batman and Wonder Woman in their mission to rescue
    Supergirl from Darkseid's brainwashing on Apokolips.
-   An alternate universe version of Barda appeared in Justice League:
    Gods and Monsters, she was part of the New Genesis mission to
    murder the royalty of Apokolips.

Video games

-   A statue of Big Barda is present at the Hall of Justice stage in
    Injustice: Gods Among Us.
-   Big Barda appears in the online video game  Universe Online in
    the DLC trilogy 'Halls of Power.' In the DLC, Barda and Mister
    Miracle lead the new heroes (players) to the Necropolis to gather
    Old Gods relics before Darkseid does.

Toys

-   Big Barda was the 76th issue in the  Super Hero Collection.

