BIZARRO is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books
published by . The character was created by writer Otto Binder
and artist George Papp as a "mirror image" of Superman and first
appeared in Superboy #68 (1958).

Debuting in the Silver Age of Comic Books (1956 - 1970), the character
has often been portrayed as an antagonist to Superman, and appeared in
both comic books and graphic novels as well as other -related
products such as animated and live-action television series, trading
cards, toys, and video games.


Publication history

Bizarro debuted in Superboy #68 (cover-dated Oct. 1958, but on sale in
August), writer Otto Binder casting the character as a Frankenstein's
monster pastiche that possessed all the powers of Superboy. Shunned for
his grotesque appearance, the teen version of Bizarro only appeared in a
single comic book story. An adult version appeared around the same time
in the Superman daily newspaper comic strip written by Alvin Schwartz,
debuting in Episode 105: "The Battle With Bizarro" (strips 6147-6242:
Aug. 25, 1958 to Dec. 13, 1958). According to comics historian Mark
Evanier, Schwartz long claimed that he originated the Bizarro concept
prior to the character's appearance in Superboy. The newspaper
storyline introduced the strange speech patterns that became synonymous
with the character, with all of Bizarro's comments meaning the opposite
(e.g._ "bad" means "good"). The newspaper version wore a "B" on his
chest, as opposed to his distinctive "S".

Schwartz stated:

Binder introduced the adult version of the character into the Superman
comic book, this time wearing an "S," in Action Comics #254 (July
1959). Bizarro proved popular, and eventually starred in a Bizarro World
feature in Adventure Comics for fifteen issues, running from issue
#285-299 (June 1961-Aug. 1962), as well as in a special all-Bizarro
80-Page Giant (Superman #202, Dec. 1967/Jan. 1968). The character made
forty appearances in the Superman family of titles — Action Comics,
Superman, Superman's Pal Jimmy Olsen, Superman's Girl Friend, Lois
Lane, Adventure Comics, Secret Society of Super Villains, and 
Comics Presents — from 1959 to 1984, prior to a reboot of the 
Universe as a result of the limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths #1
- 12 (April 1985 - March 1986).

Bizarro was reintroduced into the  Universe in a one-off appearance
with characterization similar to his original Superboy appearance in
The Man of Steel #5 (Dec. 1986). He was later revived in the
"Bizarro's World" serial that ran through the Superman titles in March
and April 1994, and in Action Comics Annual #8 in 1996. An unrelated
four-issue limited series titled A. Bizarro (July - Oct.) was
published in 1999.

Yet another version was introduced during the "Emperor Joker" storyline
in September - October 2000. Remaining in  continuity, this
Bizarro continued to make semi-regular guest appearances that firmly
established the character as part of the Superman mythos.


Fictional character biography

Pre-Crisis Bizarro

General Dru-Zod had originally created bizarro duplicates of himself to
dominate the planet, Krypton. The bizarros had no power because they
were not under a yellow sun, but they were soldiers ready to kill and
die without hesitation. This was the reason why Zod was banished to the
Phantom Zone for 25 Krypton sun-cycles.

Some 12 years later, totally oblivious to these facts, a scientist on
the Earth is demonstrating his newly invented "duplicating ray" to
Superboy, and an accident causes the ray to duplicate the superhero. The
copy, quickly labeled "Bizarro", is a flawed imitation as it possesses
chalky white skin and childlike erratic behavior. Shunned by the people
of Smallville, Bizarro befriends a blind girl, and loses all hope when
he realizes that the girl didn't shun or flee from him, because she was
blind. Superboy is eventually forced to "kill" the "less than perfect"
clone, using the remains of the duplicating machine, which acts like
blue kryptonite (as opposed to green kryptonite, Superboy's weakness) on
the copy. The whole business proved unexpectedly easy as Bizarro
deliberately destroyed himself by colliding with the duplicating
machine's fragment. The ensuing explosion miraculously restores the
girl's eyesight.

Years after this adventure, Superman's arch-foe Lex Luthor recreates the
"duplicating ray" and uses it on the hero, hoping to control the
duplicate. The Bizarro that is created, however, is confused, stating:
"Me not human... me not creature... me not even animal! Me unhappy! Me
don't belong in world of living people! Me don't know difference between
right and wrong — good and evil!" Luthor is arrested by Bizarro for
re-creating him, but forgotten as Bizarro attempts to emulate Superman,
creating havoc in the city of Metropolis and almost exposing Superman's
secret identity as Clark Kent. When Bizarro falls in love with reporter
Lois Lane, she uses the duplicating ray on herself to create a "Bizarro
Lois", who is instantly attracted to Bizarro. The Bizarros leave Earth
together, determined to find a home where they can be themselves.

Superman encounters the couple once again, discovering that Bizarro —
now called Bizarro #1 — has used a version of the duplication ray to
create an entire world of Bizarros, who now reside on a cube-shaped
planet called "Htrae" (Earth spelled backwards). Bizarro #1 and
Bizarro-Lois #1 also give birth to a child who while super-powered,
appears to be totally human. Considered a freak by Bizarro standards
(out of resentment for the way he was treated by earth humans, Bizarro
#1 made a law that they must act the opposite of humans, causing no end
of lunacy), the child is the catalyst for a brief war between Htrae and
Earth. Blue Kryptonite is also invented during this war, as well as
the -temporary- existence of Bizarro-Supergirl. Bizarro also has a
series of adventures on Htrae, aiding a normal Jimmy Olsen when he is
accidentally trapped on the Bizarro world, preventing an invasion of
blue kryptonite statues, and stopping the Bizarro version of
Titano.

Bizarro's influence is also felt on Earth: Jimmy Olsen is inadvertently
turned into a Bizarro for a time, and a new teen version of Bizarro
travels to the 30th century, attempting to join the Legion of
Super-Heroes. When rejected by the Legion, the Bizarro teen creates his
own Bizarro version of the Legion, which Superboy eventually persuades
him to disband.

When Bizarro encounters Superman once again, his powers had altered so
that they were the opposite of Superman's (such as possessing freeze
vision as opposed to heat vision and heat breath as opposed to freeze
breath), and he unsuccessfully attempts to kidnap Lois Lane. Bizarro
also temporarily joins the Secret Society of Super Villains to battle
the Justice League of America and Captain Comet.

Bizarro appears in the Alan Moore-scripted "Whatever Happened to the Man
of Tomorrow?", in Superman #423 (September 1986). Bizarro goes berserk
and destroys the Bizarro World and its inhabitants, then travels to
Metropolis and wreaks havoc before abruptly committing suicide. This and
many other deaths turn out to be the machinations of Mister Mxyzptlk who
had begun a rampage of crime. Superman is unable to undo the deaths, but
kills Mxyzlptlk and then uses gold kryptonite on himself.

Bizarro's final pre-Crisis appearance was in  Presents #97
(September 1986), which was also the final issue of that series. After
being empowered by a hideously disfigured Phantom Zone sorcerer, Mr.
Mxyzptlk destroys Zrfff and then causes the Bizarro world to implode,
killing all its inhabitants. Bizarro's severed head crashes onto Clark
Kent's desk and addresses Clark Kent before his simulated life ends.
Bizarro does not appear in the Crisis on Infinite Earths, apparently
because of this story's events.

This story directly contradicts a World's Finest story where it is
revealed that sometime in the future, Htrae is transformed into a more
normal world (egg-shaped rather than cubical) by the radiation from an
exploding celestial body. The Bizarroes are changed into normal
non-powered people as well, but still retaining vestiges of their
Bizarro laws (curtains hung outside the windows of a house, etc.).

Post-Crisis

After the events of Crisis on Infinite Earths, Lex Luthor orders his
scientific team to create a clone of Superman. However, wrongfully
starting from the assumption that Superman is a human with metahuman
abilities (his alien origin had not yet been discovered by Luthor, let
alone publicly revealed), the process results in a flawed copy, which
Luthor dismissively refers to as "...this bizarre -- Oh, forget it",
before ordering for the subject to be disposed of. The monstrous clone
survives and, although mute and possessed of only limited intelligence
and vague memories of Clark Kent's life, attempts to mimic Superman;
including carrying a broken down ambulance to the hospital. He kidnaps
Lois Lane and is finally destroyed when colliding with Superman in
mid-air. Each time he exerted himself, the clone crumbled slightly.
When Lois Lane's sister was exposed to Bizarro's dust, she recovers her
sense of vision. Lois Lane's sister was previously blinded by a
terrorist acid attack. The cure was completed when she was hit by a
shower of the dust when Superman smashed the clone. While Superman had
not expected this effect, he speculated that Bizarro heard the sister
explain her partial recovery. Thereafter, the characters believe that
Bizarro may have deliberately allowed himself to be killed in order to
cure her. [The new "Bizarro": cover of Action Comics #785 (Jan. 2002).
Art by Ed McGuinness.]

A 2nd Bizarro, able to speak and think better due to genetic engineering
by Luthor prior to using the clone process, appeared in a 5-issue
substory in the clone plague story-arc titled "Bizarro's World"
(beginning in Superman #87). Before he died, this Bizarro seriously
injured Happersen, kidnapped Lois, created a ramshackle dummy version of
Metropolis in a warehouse (to parody Superman's frequently rescuing
Lois, he deliberately exposed her to and "rescued" her from one lethal
danger after another), abducted Lana Lang, proposed to Lois (presenting
her with a ring, actually a stolen table display) and finally died in
Luthor's labs. During this period, Superman also had to cope with an
unending increase in his powers due to exposure to "purple kryptonite"
in the climax of the Death of Superman and Reign of the Supermen
story-arcs.

There was one other Bizarro created by Lex Luthor's clone process, by
Lex Luthor's estranged wife and Dabney Donovan shortly after Superman
regained his normal powers when he expended his electromagnetic ones.
This Bizarro abducted Lex Luthor's baby daughter and intended to send
her by rocket to another planet, emulating Kal-El's escape from Krypton.
His pile of explosives and bombs, meant to launch the rocket, would have
killed her instead, and Superman had to shield her when Bizarro threw
the launch switch. Bizarro 2, already self-destructing from a genetic
booby trap encoded into him by his creator, perished in the
explosion.

Another version of Bizarro possesses all the abilities of Superman but
with a childlike mentality and method of speech. He is created by
Batman's arch-enemy the Joker when the villain steals the powers of the
fifth-dimensional imp Mr. Mxyzptlk. Creating a twisted version of Earth
called "Jokerworld" — a perfect cube with Joker's image on each facet —
the villain designates Bizarro to be the planet's greatest hero and
leader of a reimagined "JLA" (the "Joker's League of Anarchy"). When
Mxyzptlk regains his powers, the imp allows Bizarro and several other
beings to remain on the restored Earth.

Bizarro suffers a setback when captured by the Pokolistanian dictator
General Zod. Zod beats and tortures Bizarro, apparently simply because
the creature resembles Superman. The hero rescues Bizarro, and to help
him adjust to the normal Earth rebuilds Bizarro's "Graveyard of
Solitude" (the opposite of Superman's Fortress of Solitude). During
the Infinite Crisis, Bizarro is tricked into joining the reformed Secret
Society of Super Villains by Flash's foe Zoom, and during a battle with
superteam the Freedom Fighters accidentally kills the Human Bomb,
constantly hitting the hero to observe the flashes of light that are
produced from the kinetic energy of the blows.

Bizarro becomes involved when Kryptonian criminals led by General Zod
escape to Earth, but wishing to create a home for himself, Bizarro
travels into deep space to a solar system occupied by a blue sun. After
creating a cube shaped planet, filled with abstract versions of various
buildings and locations on Earth, Bizarro is still lonely. The blue sun,
however, gives Bizarro a new ability called "Bizarro Vision", which
allows him to create new Bizarros. When this fails, Bizarro kidnaps
Jonathan Kent, Superman's adopted father on Earth. Superman rescues his
father and helps Bizarro become his world's greatest hero.

Bizarro eventually appears on the planet Throneworld, befriending and
aiding Earth hero Adam Strange and allies Prince Gavyn, Captain Comet,
and the Weird. Together they participate in the war between alien worlds
Rann and Thanagar, and against villains Lady Styx and Synnar.
Bizarro eventually visits the grave of a deceased Jonathan Kent, and is
then sent (by rogue Kryptonians) with other Superman foes to the
inter-dimensional prison, the Phantom Zone.

Bizarro has a series of encounters with former Secret Society ally
Solomon Grundy, and during the events of Blackest Night, Bizarro
confronts the Black Lantern version of Grundy. Bizarro eventually
destroys Grundy by driving him into the heart of the Sun.

Later, while investigating an object that crashes into a Metropolis park
and leaves a massive crystallized crater in its center, Dr. Light and
Gangbuster discover a Bizarro-like creature that resembles
Supergirl. The Bizarro Supergirl takes the heroes hostage, but is
ultimately defeated in battle by the real Supergirl. It is revealed
that the Bizarro Supergirl is a refugee from the cube-shaped Bizarro
World, and was sent to Earth by her cousin after their planet was
attacked by a being known as the Godship. Dr. Light attempts to take the
Bizarro Supergirl to S.T.A.R. Labs, only to be violently knocked
unconscious by Supergirl, who then absconds with her doppelganger and
her ship, hoping to stop the Godship and save Bizarro World. After
taking Bizarro Supergirl back to Bizarro World, Bizarro Superman is
reunited with Bizarro Supergirl.

The New 52

In The New 52 (a reboot of the  universe), Bizarro first
appears in the Forever Evil event. Five years ago, Lex Luthor,
intending to create his personal army of Supermen, attempted to splice
Superman's DNA with human DNA and injected it into a teenage test
subject. Instead, he transforms into a hulking white-skinned monster
with cryonic vision, incendiary breath, and immunity to Kryptonite —
deducing his weakness, Luthor hits him with concentrated solar radiation
that oversaturates his cells and kills him. Luthor then takes samples of
the creature to continue his experiment, deciding to clone a purely
Kryptonian body. Five years later, a capsule labeled B-0 is shown.

After the Crime Syndicate takes over the world, Luthor releases Subject
B-0, though his transformation is only halfway through. When he kills a
security guard named Otis on Luthor's orders, Luthor is pleased and
decides to use the imperfect clone in his plan to take the Syndicate
down. Later, when Luthor and his team of villains pass through a
tunnel, B-0 is revealed to be afraid of darkness. Luthor tries to
comfort him with a story about his own fears, but ultimately wonders
whether the clone was a waste of time; B-0 then speaks his first words,
"Bizarro... try", much to Luthor's surprise. Though initially
doubtful, Luthor grows truly fond of "Bizarro", who proves to be a
powerful asset throughout the event.

During the final confrontation against the Earth-3 invaders, Bizarro
battles Mazahs, the alternate version of Luthor himself; although he
initially has the upper hand, Bizarro is fatally wounded and left to
die. Luthor desperately tries to fix him, to no avail, and they share a
sorrowful goodbye. Enraged over the death of Bizarro, Lex Luthor murders
his Earth-3 counterpart, avenging Bizarro. After the battle is over,
Luthor restarts the cloning process; when one of his scientists states
it should take about ten years to fully develop a perfect Kryptonian
clone, Luthor corrects him by saying it will take only five years,
revealing he truly intends to create a perfect copy of Bizarro.


Powers and abilities

Bizarro is depicted as having all the abilities of Superman, although in
some incarnations several of these traits have been reversed, such as

-   "freeze vision" instead of heat vision
-   "flame breath" instead of freeze breath
-   "vacuum breath" instead of super breath
-   "Bizarro telescopic vision" which allows Bizarro to see a "short
    distance behind his head" rather than a "long distance in front of
    his head"
-   "Bizarro microscopic vision" which makes objects "actually smaller
    to everyone" rather than merely "appear to be bigger to only the
    user"
-   "Bizarro X-ray vision" which allows Bizarro to "only see through
    lead" rather than the ability to "see through anything except lead"
-   "Telescopic X-ray vision" which caused Bizarro to shoot x-rays from
    his eyes from "fifty miles around".

This also applies to weaknesses, as Bizarro is vulnerable to blue
kryptonite, as opposed to green kryptonite, which is lethal to Superman.
Bizarro is actually strengthened by green kryptonite as opposed to blue
kryptonite.


Other versions

All-Star Superman

The limited series All-Star Superman (Jan. 2006 - Oct. 2008) features
Bizarro clones from an alternative universe called the "Underverse".
They can "infect" a normal human and change them into a Bizarro clone by
touch. One of these creatures is called "Zibarro" and is unique in
that he has intellect and a roughly human appearance, traits which he
considered to be sources of scorn from his fellow Bizarros, resulting in
a social isolation and loneliness he attempted to combat through
artwork. When Superman was stranded in the Underverse, Zibarro helped
him marshal the other Bizarros into building a rocketship that could
send Kal-El home - Zibarro briefly considered taking Superman's place in
the rocket, but realized he had no way of knowing he would find any more
acceptance among humans than his kinsmen. Before leaving, Superman
advised him that rather than an aberration, Zibarro may be evidence of
increasing intelligence on the part of Bizarro-Home, and encouraged him
to keep up his work; Superman had a segment of Zibarro's poetry
preserved in Superlaminite within his Fortress of Solitude after
returning home.

Amalgam Comics

An amalgamation of Bizarro and Carnage, Bizarnage was made through a
botched experiment at Project Cadmus in an attempt to replicate alien
DNA. The white, goopy creature they created went crazy and began
destroying everything and everyone in its way. Then Spider-Boy arrived
and battled him. Bizarnage wanted to be Spider-Boy, so he tried insanely
to kill him, but was eventually defeated by getting tricked by
Spider-Boy and sucked into an energy containment unit.

Superboy Comics

Bizarro appears in an issue of the tie-in comic for the late-1980s
Superboy TV show, in which he is duped into acting as a student's art
project. He also was featured in an issue of the Superman
Adventures comic series that tied into Superman: The Animated Series
in which he is brought to Earth by Lobo.

Adventure Comics

A Bizarro fantasy akin to the pre-Crisis version appears in the 1998
Adventure Comics 80-Page Giant by writer Tom Peyer and artist Kevin
O'Neill. There, Bizarro demands that a technician at a SETI-like
installation broaast his diary. Having no choice, the technician looks
over the diary, which tells the story of the classic cube-shaped
backwards Bizarro World. Superman accidentally finds himself there and,
to allay people's fears of him, goes on a "constructive rampage." The
original Bizarro, aka Bizarro #1, goes to Earth and attempts to stop
Superman with the help of his friends. However, when the other Bizarros
try to kill Superman, #1 stops them, saying that killing is the earthly
thing that they must, above all, do the opposite of. Realizing that,
however strange Bizarro World might be, its inhabitants are safer and
happier than those of Earth thanks to Bizarro #1's leadership, Superman
apologizes. To show his sincerity he hides a copy of the Bizarro Code
where nobody will ever see it. The people hold a parade in #1's honor
and with his loving wife Bizarro Lois #1 and their son, Bizarro Junior
#1 at his side, Bizarro cries saying "Me am ... happiest creature in
universe." When the technician finishes reading the story, he sees
Bizarro is gone and, horrified, asks - what if the journal itself is no
exception to the Bizarro Code? Elsewhere, the truth is revealed;
Bizarro, who has no home and has no family and is held in contempt by
Superman, weeps because he is the most miserable thing in the universe.

Trinity

In the 2004 graphic novel mini-series Trinity by Matt Wagner, Bizarro
is a genetic clone of Superman that is the result of Luthorcorp's
"Project Replica". The creature was then sealed away in the frozen
wasteland of Antarctica, encased within ice, until it was released by
Ra's al Ghul, who used him as a pawn in his plan to use nuclear warheads
to decimate Gotham as well as destroy a cluster of communication
satellites, causing a major communications blackout, the end goal of his
mission being to incite chaos and purge the Earth of the "cancer" that
is civilization. After he is injured by Batman's use of a suit of armour
and solar pulse lasers, Bizarro's hand is removed by Superman's heat
vision before his template throws him into a volcano. This Bizarro is
presumably deceased, however, his hand is turned into red kryptonite at
the bottom of the ocean.

Adventures of Superman

A story in the out-of-continuity digital-first anthology comic book
Adventures of Superman from 2013 by Christos Gage and Eduardo
Francisco reveals that Bizarro's penchant for opposites comes as a
result of his imperfectly formed brain, a discovery which allows
Superman and Professor Hamilton to make him talk and think like a
regular person and pursue his desire to be heroic.

Bizarro Comics

The 2002 graphic novel Bizarro Comics is an anthology of short comics
by artists of the independent scene handling various 
characters in humorous tales set outside of any continuity. All the
stories are bookended by Bizarro Wars, a comic written by Chris Duffy
with art by Stephen DeStefano in which Mxyzptlk seeks the aid of
Superman to save the fifth dimension from a cosmic conqueror named "A",
but ends up with Bizarro (here introduced as a new character that
neither Superman nor Mxyzptlk formerly knew of) instead. The other
comics in the volume (including one short Bizarro World story written by
Bizarro creator Alvin Schwartz) are presented as creations of the
deranged mind of Bizarro himself. The 2005 follow-up anthology
Bizarro World features the character less centrally, but includes an
introductory story in which the character runs an amusement park.

Earth 2

On Earth 2 as part of The New 52 (a reboot of the  universe),
Darkseid and Steppenwolf created a clone of Superman which they dub
Brutaal. After being snapped out of Darkseid's control by his wife
Lois Lane (who in this reality inhabits the wind-manipulating robot body
known as Red Tornado), Superman and Red Tornado leave for the Kent
Family's farm. After a protracted battle with Earth 2's superheroes,
in particular Green Lantern (Alan Scott) and a younger Kryptonian named
Val-Zod, he is revealed to be scaling and decomposing. Realizing he is a
Bizarro-type clone and that his power is waning, the Superman clone is
destroyed by Lois using a cyclone blast from her hand.

Red Son

In Superman: Red Son, Lex Luthor chose to create his own version of
Superman through cloning to combat and overcome the original. Luthor
decided to crash Sputnik into Metropolis which will bring Superman to
the event and hopefully allow Luthor to gather genetic material of
Superman. As planned, Superman arrived in time to stop the deadly crash.
The United States government claims the probe and Luthor obtained the
samples he needs in order to create his copy which proves to be
defective and was named "Superman 2." Luthor sent Superman 2 off to
engage Superman who was attending a state party which Wonder Woman was
also attending. Superman 2 clashed with Superman over the English
Channel and the two fight. Their battle was so aggressive it
accidentally caused an American nuclear missile to launch. Superman 2
proves himself to be a true genetic descendant of Superman as he
sacrificed himself to save millions from the nuclear explosion.

Justice

In Justice, Bizarro was created by Lex Luthor, in an attempt to use
early cloning technology to find a means to kill Superman. The results
were less than perfect. Once fashioned, even Luthor was incapable of
controlling Superman's would-be duplicate. He is shown to have freeze
vision, heat breath, and loves creating destruction, but isn't as
intelligent as Superman and is a member of the Legion of Doom. He's
based on the Silver Age version of Bizarro.

Miscellaneous versions

Several alternative universe versions of the character exist: a Legends
of the Dead Earth story set in the far future features a former
media-star Bizarro who owns an amusement park and who fights against his
own obsolescence; the one-shot The Superman Monster (1999),
essentially a Frankenstein pastiche, features a monstrous copy of
Bizarro created by a Viktor Luthor; and Lex Luthor creates
Bizarro-like duplicates called "Liberators" from DNA samples acquired
from Kal-El's salvaged ship in the limited series JLA: The Nail
(1998).


In other media

Television

Live action

[Tom Welling seen in the 2007 Smallville episode "Bizarro".]

-   Bizarro appears in 7 episodes of the Superboy TV series which ran
    from 1988 - 1992. This Bizarro is most like the original
    silver-age Bizarro. He was created when Superboy stepped in front of
    an experimental duplicating ray that was struck by lightning.
    Bizarro, like all duplicates made by the machine, was unstable, and
    could explode at any time. He was in love with Lana Lang and
    kidnapped her, which forced Superboy to fight him. Superboy exposed
    Bizarro to white kryptonite made by the duplicating ray, which
    stabilized him. In his second appearance, he allied himself with Lex
    Luthor, who promised to create a mate for him if he killed Superboy.
    Luthor created a Bizarro duplicate of Lana, who convinced Bizarro
    that killing Superboy was wrong. In his final episodes, Bizarro was
    made human by an experimental process that copied Superboy's
    brainwaves to his own brain. After extensive plastic surgery,
    Bizarro was totally human, with no super-powers, and took the name
    Bill Zarro. But the brainwave transfer left Superboy in a severely
    weakened state, and he was captured by a terrorist called Chaos, who
    intended to throw him off the top of a skyscraper to kill him.
    Bizarro was forced to reverse the process to get his powers back and
    save Superboy.
-   Bizarro appears in Smallville (2001 - 2011) played by Tom Welling.
    Introduced in the episode "Phantom", this version is presented as
    the result of a Kryptonian experiment that was imprisoned in the
    Phantom Zone until accidentally released by Clark Kent. The entity
    steals a portion of Clark's Kryptonian DNA and becomes an evil
    version of him, possessing all of his strengths but with an inverted
    version of his ability to absorb energy, its skin taking on a
    fragmented appearance when exposed to direct sunlight as it absorbs
    power from green kryptonite. The entity is defeated in the episode
    "Bizarro", and returns in "Gemini", taking an imprisoned Clark's
    place until destroyed by blue kryptonite in the episode "Persona",
    the blue kryptonite overloading Bizarro just as it renders
    Clark powerless.
-   The Supergirl-version of Bizarro appears in Supergirl portrayed by
    Hope Lauren, in the episode "Blood Bonds" as the pet project of
    Maxwell Lord, and later shows up in a costume similar to Supergirl's
    near the end of the episode "Strange Visitor From Another Planet."
    She picks up a vehicle from a bridge and tosses it, while the real
    Supergirl (Kara Zor-El) and her foster sister Alex Danvers watch on
    their TV set. Her story and origin are featured in the 12th episode,
    titled "Bizarro". Bizarro attacks Kara on her date with
    Adam Foster. Her skin cracks and turns gray-white when hit by
    kryptonite by Alex Danvers. She later kidnaps James Olson, but
    is finally stopped by Supergirl and Alex with blue
    kryptonite bullets. Supergirl takes the incapacitated Bizarro back
    to the DEO where she is returned to a coma state until they can find
    a way to help her. This version isn't a clone, but instead was
    created by genetically altering a permanently comatose human female
    that closely resembles Supergirl and infusing her with
    Supergirl's DNA. A total of seven girls were used by Lord for the
    experiment, the rest presumably discarded as failures.

Animation

-   Bizarro appears in Challenge of the Super Friends (1978), as a
    member of the Legion of Doom, and is voiced by William Callaway.
-   Bizarro appears in Super Friends (1980 - 1982), and was featured
    as solo villain in the episodes "The Revenge of Bizarro" and
    "Bizarowurld" (both 1981).
-   Bizarro appears in The Super Powers Team: Galactic
    Guardians (1985-1986) episode "The Bizarro Super Powers
    Team" (1985) voiced by Danny Dark.
-   Bizarro appears in Superboy (1989-1992), played by Barry Meyers.
-   Bizarro appears in Superman: The Animated Series (1996-2000) and
    voiced by Tim Daly. This version, a failed clone created by Luthor,
    resembles the original Silver Age version in appearance and manner.
-   Bizarro appears in Justice League Unlimited (2004-2006), voiced by
    George Newbern.
-   Bizarro appears in  Nation Shorts (2012 - 2014) Tales of
    Metropolis short "Bizarro", voiced by David Kaye.

Film

-   Bizarro appears in JLA Adventures: Trapped in Time (2014), voiced
    by Michael Donovan, as a member of the Legion of Doom, where he,
    Toyman, and Cheetah, and Solomon Grundy go back in time to
    Smallville to send baby Kal-El back into space to prevent him from
    becoming Superman, but are thwarted by Cyborg, Aquaman, and The
    Flash.
-   Bizarro appears in Lego  Super Heroes: Justice League vs.
    Bizarro League (2015), voiced by Nolan North. Rather than his usual
    role as an antagonist, Bizarro is portrayed as a well-meaning klutz
    desperate to help Superman look after Metropolis. His origin is
    explained as Lex Luthor hit Superman with a duplicator ray in order
    to create a clone he could control. In order to prevent Bizarro from
    causing any more destruction, Superman takes him to a strange
    planet, which he calls, "Bizarro World", where Bizarro defends
    yellow crystals with faces carved into them. When Darkseid starts
    collecting the yellow crystals, he returns to Earth and steals the
    Duplicator Ray, which he uses to create Bizarro versions of Wonder
    Woman, Batman, Cyborg, and Guy Gardner called Bizarra, Batzarro,
    Cyzarro, and Greenzarro, and a Kryptonite bomb to help save
    Bizarro World. After realizing his intentions, the Justice League
    and Bizarro League team up and defeat Darkseid and save
    Bizarro World.

Video games

-   Bizarro appears in Superman (1999).
-   Bizarro appears in Superman: The Man of Steel (2002).
-   Bizarro appears as a playable character in Superman Returns (2006)
    voiced by John DiMaggio.
-   Bizarro appears in  Universe Online (2011) voiced by Joe Mandia.
-   Bizarro appears as a bonus character in Lego Batman 2:  Super
    Heroes (2012) voiced by Travis Willingham.
-   Bizarro appears as a support card in Injustice: Gods Among
    Us (2013).
-   Bizarro appears via DLC as a playable character in Lego Batman 3:
    Beyond Gotham, voiced by Nolan North.

Miscellaneous

-   Warner Bros. Consumer Products collaborated with Livobooks to
    produce the first Superman interactive motion comic Mobile app
    "Superman and Bizarro Save the Planet" on iOS and Android.
-   Bizarro is the name of a steel roller coaster at Six Flags Great
    Adventure.

