BIZARRA is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by . Bizarra first appeared in  Presents #71
(July 1984), in a story written by E. Nelson Bridwell with art by Curt
Swan. The character is a distorted version of the superhero Wonder
Woman, based on the Superman villain Bizarro. She is a very
simple-minded being and speaks in reverse of what her true meaning is.


Fictional character biography

Pre-Crisis

Bizarro-Wonder Woman is first shown as a member of the Bizarro Justice
League team of social misfit heroes that inhabit Bizarro World. Their
home base is an abandoned submarine at the bottom of the sea. The team
consists of Bizarro, Bizarro Wonder Woman, Bizarro Yellow Lantern,
Bizarro Aquaman, and Bizarro Hawkman. Batzarro had left the team to form
the superhero group "The Insiders", a Bizarro version of the Outsiders
team.

In the story, Bizarro is bored being able to defeat his fellow Justice
League members so he creates a Bizarro version of the villain Amazo.
Amazo steals the powers of the Justice League, including Wonder Woman,
and helpfully gives them to ordinary citizens of Bizarro World. After
realizing the folly of his actions, Bizarro convinces Bizarro Amazo to
return the powers to the proper persons.

Post-Crisis

In 1985,  introduced a storyline titled Crisis on Infinite
Earths. That company-wide story arc erased the established history of
almost all 's characters. Bizarra was then re-introduced as part
of an all new Bizarro Justice League team (which included Bizarro,
Batzarro, Bizarro Flash, Bizarro Hawkgirl, and Bizarro Yellow Lantern).
They live on the cube-shaped planet Htrae which is populated entirely
with Bizarro-type humans. At one point, Bizarro Hawkgirl tied up Bizarra
(in that story referred to as "Wonder Woman") with her own lasso. It was
explained that Bizarra's lasso had the ability to force anyone tied by
it to tell only lies. Bizarra seemed to be romantically interested in
Bizarro but the feeling was not shared as Bizarro was in love with his
world's version of Lois Lane only. During the storyline, it was shown
that due to exposure to Htrae's blue sun, Bizarro gained the ability to
create new Bizarro life-forms. Whether Bizarra was created by Bizarro or
was a pre-existing character is unclear.

Bizarra is later shown to be working for the villain Monarch. She,
along with several other variant super-heroes, torture Tracer
mercilessly. Bizarra ends the battle by hanging Tracer with her lasso
from a fire escape by his neck.


Powers and abilities

Similar to Wonder Woman, Bizarra possesses super-strength and lightning
quick reflexes. She also possesses a lasso that forces anyone tied by it
to lie.


Other versions

All-Star Superman

In 2005,  released the All-Star line of comics. This line is
not in continuity with the other comic book titles released through 
Comics so its storylines have no impact on Wonder Woman's generally
established comic book history. In the title All-Star Superman, a
Bizarro Wonder Woman is introduced. Generally she is a 4- to
5-foot-tall () statue carried around by Bizarro on various Bizarro
Justice League missions. Bizarro explains that Bizarro Wonder Woman
started out as a beautiful baby who turned into an ugly cheap clay
statue. Thus she has the opposite life of the traditional Wonder Woman
who started out as a clay statue of a child who was transformed into a
flesh and blood woman. Despite being an inanimate statue, Bizarro
insists that Bizarro Wonder Woman is a good team player.


In other media

[Bizarro Wonder Woman from The Super Powers Team: Galactic Guardians
animated series.]

-   An earlier animated version of Bizarra was shown in an episode of
    the 1985 television series The Super Powers Team: Galactic
    Guardians titled "The Bizarro Super Powers Team" voiced by actress
    B.J. Ward, who also voiced Wonder Woman. In the episode, Bizarro
    decides that his world of Bizarros needs more heroes than just
    Bizarro Supermen. He takes a duplicator ray to Earth and makes
    Bizarro duplicates of Wonder Woman (referred to as BIZARRO WONDER
    WOMAN), Firestorm and Cyborg. Planning on taking them back to
    protect Bizarro World, Mister Mxyzptlk convinces Bizarro to train
    his new friends on Earth, which causes havoc for the real Super
    Powers Team.
-   Bizarra appears in Lego  Super Heroes: Justice League vs.
    Bizarro League, voiced by Kari Wahlgren. In it, she, Batzarro,
    Greenzarro, and Cyzarro are created by Bizarro firing a duplicating
    ray at Batman, Wonder Woman, Green Lantern, and Cyborg.
-   Bizarra appears in Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham. In the Bizarro
    World DLC map, Bizarra is among the Bizarro Justice League members
    that defends Bizarro World from Darkseid's forces.

