BLACK VULCAN is a fictional African-American superhero on the animated
series Super Friends created by Hanna-Barbera. He was voiced by Buster
Jones.


Fictional character biography

Unlike most of the Super Friends, Black Vulcan was not a pre-existing 
Comics character. This is particularly notable since ' roster
did include an African American superhero with electricity-based powers,
Black Lightning, who could not be used on the show due to disputes
between  and Black Lightning's creator Tony Isabella.

Black Vulcan appeared in The All-New Super Friends Hour cartoon series
(episode "The Whirlpool").

His powers include the ability to emit electricity from his hands. He
can also fly by charging his lower body with energy. On a few occasions,
he has exhibited powers he had not shown before, such as the ability to
assume a form of pure energy and travel at the speed of light (in an
unsuccessful attempt to escape a black hole.) He was able to travel
back in time by fluctuating his body's energy to open a rift in
space-time. Black Vulcan is able to spot-weld microelectronics.

In the final incarnation of the series, The Super Powers Team: Galactic
Guardians, he was replaced with Cyborg, another black superhero that
was already well established in .


In other media

Television

-   Black Vulcan made several appearances on the show Harvey Birdman,
    Attorney at Law voiced by Phil LaMarr.
    -   He debuted in the season one episode "Very Personal Injury", in
        which he was present at the trial when Apache Chief sued a
        coffee shop. In the episode, he describes his power as "Pure
        electricity…in my pants." This becomes a running gag; whenever
        someone makes a double entendre, he utters some variation on
        "...in my pants." He claims that he previously used the name
        "Super Volt" before Aquaman suggested his present name, which
        Black Vulcan believes is a racist slur. Black Vulcan suggests
        that Aquaman should therefore be called "White Fish". At the end
        of the episode, Black Vulcan and Apache Chief form "The
        Multicultural Pals" with other superheroes of color and Jesse
        Jackson.
    -   In "Peanut Puberty", Black Vulcan gives advice to the character
        Peanut as he goes through superhero puberty and acquires
        his powers.
    -   In the episode "Booty Noir" Black Vulcan has a menage a trois
        with his ex-girlfriend Norlissa and Reducto.
-   In the first episode of the series Static Shock, one of the
    outfits Virgil considers as his superhero costume resembles Black
    Vulcan's but includes pants. Richie rejects it, saying the outfit
    makes him look like "a battery commercial".
-   In Justice League Unlimited, the character Juice is based on Black
    Vulcan and is a member of the Ultimen. He has the ability to emit
    electricity from his body, which he can use to create small electric
    bursts or fly by charging his lower body with energy. He can assume
    an electric form which he can use to travel quickly and discreetly.
    Juice rarely speaks, but when he does his voice sounds raspy and
    broken up, like a low-quality speaker or radio. After Maxwell
    Lord reveals their true origins and short life expectancies, Juice
    shocked Maxwell Lord when he offered to help the Ultimen. The
    Ultimen battled the Justice League in a desperate plan by
    Wind Dragon. Juice battled Batman and was defeated when Batman
    knocked him into some water pipes that shorted out his power supply.
    Juice is now imprisoned like most of the other Ultimen, their bodies
    still deteriorating. An army of Ultimen clones were later created
    by Project Cadmus in an attempt to finish off the Justice League.
    They were eventually defeated.
-   The Black Vulcan outfit can be seen in the background for the teaser
    trailer for Black Lightning's upcoming  Nation Shorts. The
    episode conflates Black Lightning with the characters Thunder
    and Lightning.
-   Black Vulcan was combined with Static in Young Justice as part of
    the show's group of teen Super Friends analogues.
-   Black Vulcan makes a cameo in Scooby-Doo! Mask of the Blue Falcon
    along with the other Super Friends.

Toys

Black Vulcan has been released in a Justice League Unlimited
three-pack, accompanied by his Super Friends teammates Apache Chief and
Samurai. A 6" Black Vulcan action figure was released in Mattel's 
Universe Classics Wave 18, which was primarily dedicated to Super
Friends characters.

Comics

Comic book artist and Super Friends fan Alex Ross intended to create a
modernized version of Black Vulcan for his rejected Captain 
series. The title would have had the character reimagined as VULCAN, an
African American child who could become an adult superhero after
accidentally gaining some of the powers of the wizard Shazam.

Black Vulcan made a cameo appearance in the  One Million 80-Page
Giant special as part of one of the many alternate Justice Leagues that
accidentally ended up in the headquarters of the Justice Legion Alpha.

