BLACK LIGHTNING (real name JEFFERSON PIERCE) is a fictional superhero
appearing in American comic books published by . The character
was one of the first major African American superheroes to appear in 
Comics. He debuted in Black Lightning #1 (April 1977), and was
created by writer Tony Isabella and artist Trevor Von Eeden.


Publication history

[Black Lightning, cover detail, Justice League of America #12. Art by
Alex Ross.] The original candidate for ' first headlining black
superhero was a character called the Black Bomber, a white racist who
would turn into a black superhero under stress, and be later
described by comics historian Don Markstein as "an insult to practically
everybody with any point of view at all." When the editor who had
approved the Black Bomber left the company before the character had seen
print, Tony Isabella (whose previous writing experience included Luke
Cage, ' first black superhero with his own title) was asked
to salvage the character. Isabella managed to convince editors of his
Black Lightning character which he had been working on for some time,
mentioning that his characters along the way were merely stepping
stones.

Tony Isabella wrote the first 10 issues of Black Lightning, before
handing it over to Dennis O'Neil. Only one O'Neil-scripted issue came
out before the series was canceled in 1978 as part of a general
large-scale pruning of the company's superhero titles known as the 
Implosion. Issue #12 was published in Cancelled Comic Cavalcade and
World's Finest Comics #260.

Black Lightning made a number of guest appearances in various titles
over the next few years, including a string of issues of World's Finest
Comics written by O'Neil, then shifting to Detective Comics and a
two-part story in Justice League of America in which the League
invited him to join, but he turned them down.

In 1983, with his powers restored, he regularly appeared again as a
member of the Batman-led superhero team the Outsiders. When The
Outsiders ended, he returned to making occasional guest appearances.

In 1995, a new Black Lightning series began, with art by Eddy Newell,
again written by Tony Isabella, who was fired after the eighth issue
with the series then being written by Australian writer Dave de Vries.
After Isabella left, the series was canceled five issues later, the
decision being made before these issues had seen print. Isabella has
stated that he believes the editor fired him because of a wish to bring
in a new writer to "create his own power base at ".

A "Black Lightning: Year One" six-issue limited series, written by Jen
Van Meter and illustrated by Cully Hamner saw a bi-weekly release in
2009, and was nominated for two Glyph Awards in 2010.

As part of the New 52, a revamped version of Black Lightning appeared in
 Universe Presents where he was paired with Blue Devil.


Fictional character biography

Year One

A gold medal-winning Olympic decathlete, Jefferson Pierce returned to
his old neighborhood in the Southside (Suicide Slum) section of the city
of Metropolis, with his wife Lynn Stewart and his daughter Anissa to
become the principal of Garfield High School. Southside as it was once
known was where his father - renowned journalist Alvin Pierce - had been
murdered. Guilt over this event was a factor in his decision to leave
the city of Metropolis. Suicide Slum was being torn apart by a local
organized criminal gang called the 100, shady corporations, and crooked
local politicians like Tobias Whale. Peter Gambi, a family friend and
tailor, had taught a much younger Jefferson how to suppress his inborn
metahuman abilities so that he would not accidentally hurt any of the
people he cared about. Upon his return Gambi suggested to Jefferson
that he should use his powers to help the neighborhood, and refers him
to a plaque with the paraphrased Milo Sweetman quote _"Justice, like
lightning, should ever appear to some men hope, to other men fear."_
(the original text of which was _"Justice, like lightning, ever should
appear to few men's ruin, but to all men's fear. Of mortal justice if
thou scorn the rod, believe and tremble, thou art judged of God."_)
Appalled by the public murder of Earl Clifford, one of his more
promising students, Pierce tried to intervene on behalf of the
schoolchildren, but quickly learned that the 100 objected violently to
any interference. Pierce adopts the costumed identity "Black
Lightning". Years later, he would tell fellow African American superhero
Mister Terrific that he chose the name Black Lightning because he "was
the only one of us around" at the time, and he "wanted to make sure
everyone knew who they were dealing with."

Outsiders

After his own series was canceled, Black Lightning lost his electrical
powers, but continued fighting without them. The loss eventually turned
out to be psychosomatic, a symptom of a crisis of confidence resulting
from the accidental death of a female bystander named Trina Shelton
during an altercation between Black Lightning and some gun-wielding
thugs. Batman, wanting to recruit him to rescue Lucius Fox in Markovia,
helped him regain his powers; this eventually led him to join the
Batman's Outsiders. During his time with the Outsiders, a group of
villains called the Masters of Disaster captured Black Lightning at the
behest of the parents of Trina Shelton to avenge the death of their
daughter; however, upon learning that he still regretted what
happened and was willing to be executed by them, they sacrificed their
lives to save him. During the Invasion! crossover, the Dominators
detonated a Gene-Bomb that wreaked havoc with anyone possessing the
metagene by making them lose control of their powers. After the
breakup of the Outsiders, Black Lightning moved to Brick City to
continue his solo career in 1995's Black Lightning #1.

Secretary of Education

[Cover to Black Lightning v2, #1, Eddy Newell] When Lex Luthor was
elected President of the United States in 2000, he appoints Jefferson
Pierce as Secretary of Education, Pierce accepting as he concludes that
he can do more good working within the system than outside it. He
resigned amidst controversy over his "worst-kept secret in Washington"
identity as Black Lightning, and his alleged inadvertent killing of a
criminally-minded corporate CEO, for which President Pete Ross (who had
since succeeded Luthor) then pardoned him.

Making frequent guest appearances in several  series, Pierce has
appeared in Green Arrow (who had a one night stand with his niece, a
successful attorney named Joanna Pierce). Pierce helped Green Arrow
track down Dr. Light in the Green Arrow "Heading into the Light" story
arc. He also appeared in the new Outsiders, of which his daughter,
Anissa (using the alias Thunder), is a member. He came to fight the new
Sabbac and help his daughter alongside Captain  Jr. and the
Outsiders. He had on an outfit that mixed his second outfit with the
colors of the first. After teaming up with the Outsiders, incoming
President Pete Ross asked him to resign as Secretary of Education and he
did.

At some point prior to his resignation, Pierce used his pull in
Washington to deny the powerful metahuman gangster known as Holocaust
permits to build a Casino on Paris Island in Dakota. This would come
back to haunt Pierce sometime later when the enraged Holocaust attacked
him while he was giving the graduation speech at Ernest Hemingway High
School.

Infinite Crisis

In issue #5 of the Infinite Crisis storyline, it was shown that Black
Lightning was one of the eight people Batman had considered to aid him
in destroying the Brother Eye satellite, which controlled the OMACs.
Booster Gold, who was not on the list of eight, but knew about the
candidates from his knowledge of the future, contacted Lightning before
Batman did, as historical data from the future had shown who had aided
Batman. Lightning accepted, arriving at the Bat cave to await orders. He
then forged an uneasy yet effective alliance with Mister Terrific,
combining their powers of electrical manipulation and invisibility
technology to strike the villainous AI from the inside.

After the third Society of Super Villains was formed, Black Lightning as
a member of Brad Meltzer's new Justice League began using his status as
Lex Luthor's former Secretary of Education to gain information from
super villains.

Outsiders redux

In Outsiders (vol. 3) #45, it was revealed that three years have
passed since Jefferson's niece Joanna Pierce was murdered, and that upon
initially learning of her death, Jefferson went after the corrupt
businessman Martin Somers, the man who was responsible. He had intended
to wound Somers with his lightning shot, but apparently ended up killing
him. Jefferson turned himself in to the authorities. However, it is
revealed that Deathstroke was responsible for Somers' death by firing a
dart of toxin to Somers moments before Jefferson shot his lightning.
Hence, he was dead before he hit the ground. Jason Todd discovered the
truth while eavesdropping on the assassin's conversation with Lex Luthor
(who was really Alexander Luthor, Jr. in disguise) and contacted
Nightwing with this information. When Nightwing and Anissa told
Jefferson of this in prison, he disbelieved it and intended to pay for
Somers' death. Anissa herself intended to break her father out of Iron
Heights Prison. Upon learning from Todd that other inmates were about to
carry out a contract hit on Pierce (whose identity as an inmate had
leaked to unknown parties), the Outsiders resolved to assist her. They
freed him from jail and with the audio recording of Deathstroke's
conversation cleared his name.

Justice League of America

Years ago, Green Arrow brought Black Lightning to the attention of the
Justice League of America, who extended an offer of membership to the
protector of Suicide Slum. He turned down the offer, preferring to work
as a loner and focus on street-level crime, though he did offer to
become a reservist. Years later, when all of the JLA reservists
where called in to fight a newly revived Amazo, Black Lighting was one
of the heroes called, confirming that the League had accepted his offer.
Most recently, however, Black Lightning has joined the JLA, once again
appearing with a modified costume. He appears to be primarily based
in Washington  again. Black Lightning assists the JLA with
intelligence gathered from the criminal community. Many super villains
still believe he is 'in' with Lex Luthor and are willing to cooperate.
Jefferson also helps the team in a battle against Amazo. He was the
first member of the League to respond to the recent attacks made by the
Amazons of Themyscira, and he also saved the President of the United
States in this event.

Black Lightning was the focus of the one-shot Final Crisis: Submit, in
which he helped the new Tattooed Man and his family escape at the cost
of his own freedom. He is subsequently shown in issue 4 of Final
Crisis under Darkseid's thrall.

Outsiders

Recently, Black Lightning was recruited by Alfred Pennyworth to join a
new version of the Outsiders following an attack by Doctor Hurt which
left Thunder comatose. Unlike previous iterations of the team, these
Outsiders must live "off the grid" and stay out of contact with friends
and family for months at a time. It is confirmed that, due to this new
commitment, Black Lightning has left the Justice League.

The New 52

In 's 2011 reboot of its continuity, The New 52, Black Lightning
comes into conflict with Blue Devil, over their confrontation of Tobias
Whale's crime wave. He later made an appearance as a possible
recruit for the Justice League.


Powers and abilities

Originally, he was described as having no innate powers, using a
belt that allowed him to generate a force field and project electrical
bolts. This power was later revealed to exist as a result of the
Metagene, according to Invasion!_ #3.

According to Black Lightning: Year One, Jefferson Pierce is in current
continuity a metahuman who was born with the ability to generate and
magnify external localized electromagnetic phenomena, by manipulating
intense bio-electric fields generated by his body. This is a power that
he internalized and kept hidden for much of the early part of his adult
life. Exactly how much electrical energy Black Lightning can
generate is unknown but he can easily stun or kill a man with his
internal powers, and on one occasion he was able to restart Superman's
heart after the Man of Steel had suffered from a near-fatal Kryptonite
exposure. He can also generate a powerful electro-magnetic force field
capable of stopping projectiles, however, this act requires considerable
effort and concentration. He has demonstrated the ability to create
an electromagnetic repulsion field which grants him limited flight
capabilities. Pierce also maintains his Olympic-level physical
conditioning, giving him above average strength, speed, and stamina.
Under Batman's tutelage, he has become a highly skilled hand-to-hand
combatant and martial artist.


Black Lightning's daughters

Jefferson has had two daughters by his ex-wife Lynn Stewart, both of
whom have followed in his footsteps and become superheroes. His oldest
daughter Anissa Pierce has taken on the name "Thunder" and served on an
incarnation of his team the Outsiders and his sixteen-year-old
younger daughter, Jennifer Pierce, was recently recruited by the Justice
Society of America under the code name "Lightning". A version of
Lightning first appeared in Kingdom Come a 1996 miniseries published
by .

In Justice League of America vol. 2 #27, Pierce claims that people
frequently ask him if he is the father of Static, much to his chagrin.
It is later revealed that Static is in fact a fan of Black Lightning,
and has a poster of the hero in his room in Titans Tower.


Enemies

Black Lightning has his own rogues galley which consists of:

-   100 - A criminal organization.
    -   TOBIAS WHALE - A crime lord who heads up the Metropolis branch
        of the 100.
    -   JOEY TOLEDO - A drug pusher.
-   ISHMAEL - A shapeshifting servant of Tobias Whale who was sent to
    assassinate someone, but was defeated by Black Lightning.
-   PAINKILLER - A supervillain who was sent to kill Black
    Lightning.
-   WARHOG - An assassin who was sent to kill Black Lightning.


Reception

IGN listed Black Lightning as the 85th greatest comic book hero of all
time, describing him as a true hero and a born badass who has earned his
spot on the Justice League.


Other versions

-   Black Lightning has appeared in the Justice League Unlimited
    spin-off comic book. His appearances are in issues #15 and
    #27.
-   During a JLA mission, the Vixen encounters an alternate version of
    Black Lightning called the "Brown Bomber", a contemporary version of
    the original Black Bomber envisioned prior to Tony Isabella's
    involvement with the character.
-   In the 1997 Tangent Comics series "Black Lightning" is the codename
    of Francis Powell a member of the Tangent World variation of the
    Metal Men as well as one of the key members of the government
    organisation Nightwing. He is in charge of an mission to apprehend
    the Lia Nelson version of The Flash with the help of "Dark Star"
    (Todd Rice).
-   Black Lightning appears in the Injustice: Gods Among Us Comic as a
    member of Batman's Insurgency.
-   A version of Black Lightning appears on Earth-23 in the New 52 as
    part of a predominately African American Justice League led by a
    black Superman.


In other media

Television

-   Black Lightning appears in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold
    episode "Enter the Outsiders!" voiced by Bumper Robinson. He seems
    to be the lead of the trio composed of him, Katana, and Metamorpho.
    They work for a sewer dweller named Slug at first, but turn on him
    when Wilat convinces them to fight for good. Black Lightning later
    uses his electricity to save Wilat's life with instructions from
    Katana when the elder falls victim to a heart attack. Black
    Lightning and his comrades are later seen training with Batman in
    the teaser of "Duel of the Double Crossers!". Black Lightning's
    hatred for society is shown in "Inside the Outsiders!". Black
    Lightning had a fleeting cameo in "The Siege of Starro! Part One"
    (as one of the heroes under Starro's mind control) in which he
    blasted Firestorm with lightning and was shown to have a
    new costume. He reappeared in the teaser of "Requiem for a Scarlet
    Speedster!", in which he and the rest of the Outsiders (Katana,
    Metamorpho, Geo-Force, and Halo) help Batman stop Kobra and his
    cultists from completing a ritual. He and Geo-Force save Batman from
    being crushed by a snake. Though Batman compliments Black
    Lightning's ability to lead, the Outsiders forgot to take out the
    bridge behind them, resulting in reinforcements coming in.
-   Both the animated versions of Black Lightning and Static share a
    shout-out joke; as they both wear a blue and yellow outfit (trench
    coat & jacket). In addition, the pilot episode of Static Shock
    features a scene where Static tries on a costume that looks similar
    to Black Lightning's, while Black Lightning in Batman: The Brave
    and the Bold jokes he needs more than a "little static shock" to
    defeat his enemies (By the same token, Wilat jokes that it was
    going to take "a whole lot more than a little static shock to slow
    this old man down!").
-   Prior to appearing in Batman: The Brave and the Bold in 2009,
    Black Lightning had never appeared in any of the many television
    series based on  superheroes, except for the original
    Superfriends cartoon where he was given the name Black Vulcan. This
    in itself is not unusual for a character of Black Lightning's
    relative obscurity, but is notable because at least three such
    series have contained specially-created black superheroes with
    electrical powers who weren't Black Lightning - series regular
    Black Vulcan in Super Friends, Soul Power in Static Shock, and
    Juice in Justice League Unlimited, based on Black Vulcan.
-   Black Lightning appears in an episode of Mad voiced by Gary
    Anthony Williams. In the "That's What Super Friends Are For"
    segment, he and Plastic Man lead the other heroes in a musical
    number where they ask Superman, Batman, and Wonder Woman about why
    their group is called the "Super Friends."
-   Black Lightning appears in the "Thunder and Lightning" shorts of 
    Nation Shorts voiced by Blair Underwood.
-   Black Lightning appears in Young Justice: Invasion, voiced by
    Khary Payton. In "Happy New Year", he is shown as a member of the
    Justice League five years later from Season One. In "Cornered", he
    attempts to remove the force-field that Despero has set in the Hall
    of Justice. He displays pitch-black electricity when using
    his powers. In "Endgame", Black Lightning and Static take down the
    Magnetic Field Disruptor in Dakota City. Afterwards, Black Lightning
    asks Static that if he needs a mentor, he should let him know.

Film

-   LeVar Burton provides the voice of Black Lightning in his single
    speaking line in the animated movie, Superman/Batman: Public
    Enemies. He is one of the heroes who agrees to work for Lex Luthor
    after the supposedly reformed villain is elected
    President.''
-   A version of Black Lightning known as BLACK POWER appears as a
    member of the Crime Syndicate of America in the animated film
    Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths. The heroic Black Lightning
    also makes an appearance, along with Aquaman, Black Canary,
    Firestorm, and Red Tornado, presumably as backup members of the
    Justice League, although their actual membership status is never
    explicitly stated. Black Lightning, and the other backups,
    appear again after the final battle as Batman suggests initiating a
    membership drive. While Black Lightning does not have any lines his
    grunts are provided by Cedric Yarbrough, who was credited only in
    his role as Firestorm.

Video games

-   Bumper Robinson reprises his role of Black Lightning in Batman: The
    Brave and the Bold – The Videogame.
-   Alexander Brandon voices Black Lightning in the  Universe Online
    video game.

Comic strip

Black Lightning's earliest appearances outside of his own title in 1977
were in The World's Greatest Superheroes newspaper comic strip. There,
he met Batman and other heroes before his rejection of Justice League of
America membership.

Homages/parodies

-   Sinbad once appeared on NBC's Saturday Night Live dressed as Black
    Lightning, crashing Superman's funeral (with the episode airing the
    same time as The Death of Superman storyline). The other
    dignitaries and superheroes did not recognize him, even though he
    claimed to have taught Superman how to fly. As the funeral breaks up
    so that the superheroes can stop the Legion of Doom in their attack
    on Metropolis Civic Arena, he is spotted at the back of the room, at
    the buffet table, grabbing the free shrimp that Aquaman had brought
    to the funeral.
-   In the commercial of Alltel there is a character similar to Black
    Lightning, he brings Chad the spokesperson to tell the family about
    the offer and zaps away the competition.

