BLACK CANARY is a fictional superheroine in comic books published by 
Comics. Created by the writer-artist team of Robert Kanigher and Carmine
Infantino, the character debuted in Flash Comics #86 (August 1947).
One of 's earliest super-heroines, Black Canary has appeared in many
of the company's flagship team-up titles including Justice Society of
America and Justice League of America. Since the late 1960s, the
character has frequently been paired with archer superhero Green Arrow
professionally and romantically.

At her Golden Age debut, Black Canary was the alter ego of Dinah Drake
and participated in crime-fighting adventures with her love interest
(and eventual husband), Gotham City detective Larry Lance. Initially,
the character was a hand-to-hand fighter without superpowers who often
posed as a criminal to infiltrate criminal gangs. Later stories depicted
her as a world-class martial artist with a superpower: the "Canary Cry",
a high-powered sonic scream which could shatter objects and incapacitate
enemies. When  adjusted its continuity, Black Canary was
established as two separate entities: mother and daughter, Dinah Drake
and Dinah Laurel Lance. Stories since the Silver Age have focused on the
younger Black Canary, ascribing her superhuman abilities to a genetic
mutation. In 2011,  again reset its continuity, establishing
Black Canary as a singular super-powered heroine and former Team 7
agent, Dinah Lance (née Drake).

Black Canary has been adapted into various media, including
direct-to-video animated films, video games, and both live-action and
animated television series, featuring as a main or recurring character
in the shows Birds of Prey, Justice League Unlimited, Smallville,
Batman: The Brave and the Bold, Young Justice and Arrow. The
character is ranked the 71st-greatest comic-book character of all time
by Wizard, and IGN rated her its 81st-greatest all-time comic-book
hero. She was number 26 on Comics Buyer's Guide's "100 Sexiest
Women in Comics" list.


Publication history

Robert Kanigher and Carmine Infantino created the character in 1947 to
be featured in Flash Comics as a supporting character. Appearing first
as a clandestine crime-fighter who infiltrates criminal organizations to
break them from the inside, Black Canary was drawn with fishnet
stockings and a black leather jacket to connote images of a sexualized
yet strong female character. She appeared as a character in a back-up
story featuring "Johnny Thunder":

According to Amash & Nolen-Weathington (2010), Black Canary is "really"
Carmine Infantino's "first character."<ref
name=Amas&Nolen-Weathington2010/> According to the famed artist: "When
Kanigher gave me the script, I said, 'How do you want me to draw her?'
He said, 'What's your fantasy of a good-looking girl? That's what I
want.' Isn't that a great line? So that's what I did. I made her strong
in character and sexy in form. The funny part is that years later, while
in Korea on a National Cartoonists trip, I met a dancer who was the
exact image of the Black Canary. And I went out with her for three
years.

Bob didn't ask me for a character sketch [for the Black Canary]. He had
a lot of respect for me, I must say that. He always trusted my work… Bob
loved my Black Canary design."<ref name=Amas&Nolen-Weathington2010/>


Fictional character biography

Before 1983

[Cover of Flash Comics #92 (February 1948); art by Carmine Infantino]
Dinah Drake made her debut in Flash Comics #86 (August 1947) as a
supporting character in the "Johnny Thunder" feature, written by Robert
Kanigher and drawn by Carmine Infantino. Initially appearing as a
villain; Johnny is instantly infatuated with her, and is reproached
by his Thunderbolt. Dinah is later revealed to have been infiltrating a
criminal gang.

In Flash Comics #92 (February 1948) she has her own anthology feature,
"Black Canary", replacing "Johnny Thunder". The new series fleshed
out Black Canary's backstory: Dinah Drake was a black-haired florist in
love with Larry Lance, a Gotham City Police Department detective. She
first meets the Justice Society of America in ''All Star Comics #38
(December 1947-January 1948), joining them in All Star Comics #41
(June–July 1948).

Black Canary is revived with the other Golden Age characters during the
1960s, and lives on the parallel world of Earth-2 (home of 's Golden
Age versions of its characters). Married to Larry Lance since the 1950s,
Dinah participates in annual team-ups between the Justice Society and
Earth-1's Justice League of America.

In a 1969 JLA/JSA team-up against the rogue star-creature Aquarius, who
banished Earth-2's inhabitants (except the JSA) to another dimension,
Larry Lance is killed saving Dinah's life and Aquarius is defeated.
Grief-stricken, Canary moves to Earth-1 and joins the Justice League.
She begins a relationship with JLA colleague Green Arrow and discovers
that she has developed an ultrasonic scream, the Canary Cry.

Black Canary joins Batman five times in The Brave and the
Bold and Superman once (in 
Presents). Appearing frequently as a guest in the "Green Arrow"
backup feature of Action Comics, she was a backup feature in
World's Finest Comics #244 (April–May 1977) to #256 (April–May 1979)
(when the title was in Dollar Comics format). Black Canary's
backstory was featured in  Special Series #10 (April 1978).
After the "Black Canary" feature in World's Finest Comics, she appears
as a guest in its "Green Arrow" feature and in Detective Comics.

In Justice League of America #219 and #220 (October and November
1983), the contemporary Black Canary is revealed to be the daughter of
the original Black Canary. Born during the 1950s, the infant was
cursed by the Wizard with a devastating sonic scream. As a solution,
Dinah sought help from Johnny Thunder to summon his Thunderbolt genie to
cure her. The Thunderbolt was only able to keep the younger Dinah in
suspended animation in his Thunderbolt dimension, erasing the tragedy
from all memories and leaving the belief that she had died.

After the battle with Aquarius, Superman of Earth-1 discovered Dinah was
dying from radiation exposure, and she asked to see her daughter's grave
one last time. Shown the body of her now-adult daughter (still in
suspended animation), Dinah wished that she could somehow be her
successor. The Earth-1 Superman discussed a solution with the
Thunderbolt. They transferred Dinah's memories into her daughter's body
and modified her memories. This retcon dealt with Black Canary's
activity since the late 1940s (making her nearly 60 years
old), and explained the origin of her powers.

After 1983

[Dinah sparring with Rabbit of the Twelve Brothers in Silk; Birds of
Prey #82 (July 2005), with art by Joe Bennett and Jack Jadson|thumb]
After the 1983 retroactive continuity change, Black Canary became
mother-and-daughter characters Dinah Drake Lance and Dinah Laurel Lance,
with the younger Dinah the current Black Canary. Although some
references (for example, those in James Robinson's Starman series)
tried to distinguish the two Canaries by calling the first "Diana",
recent accounts have confirmed Dinah as the mother's given name.

A miniseries by writer Greg Weisman and artist Mike Sekowsky was planned
in 1984. Although its first issue was pencilled, the project was shelved
due to the character's use in writer-artist Mike Grell's high-profile
Green Arrow: The Longbow Hunters series. Elements of the project were
used in Weisman's short film,  Showcase: Green Arrow.

In Secret Origins #50 (August 1990) the first Dinah is trained by her
father, detective Richard Drake, intending to follow him on the Gotham
City police force. When she is turned down, her disillusioned father
dies shortly afterwards. Determined to honor his memory, Dinah fights
crime and corruption by any possible means. She becomes a costumed
vigilante, using her inheritance to open a flower shop as her day
job.

Dinah marries her lover, private eye Larry Lance, and keeps her flower
shop. In a Birds of Prey retrospective, Lance is an acquaintance of
Jim Gordon (father of Barbara Gordon). Several years later their
daughter, Dinah Laurel Lance, is born. In Birds of Prey #66 (June
2004), a flashback of a cold case investigated by the elder Dinah,
Laurel was the name of a librarian Dinah befriended during the case.

Dinah Lance grows up surrounded by her mother's friends in the disbanded
JSA (seeing them as uncles and aunts), and wants to be a costumed hero
like her mother. The elder Dinah discourages her, feeling that the world
has become too dangerous for her daughter to succeed.

Younger Dinah has her own "Canary Cry"—in this version, the result of a
metagene absent from both her parents—which (unlike the Silver Age Black
Canary) she can control. With this weapon, young Dinah finds
fighters (including former JSA member Wilat) who help her hone her
skills. After years of dedication and training Dinah assumes her
mother's mantle, despite the latter's opposition. Like her mother, Dinah
operates out of Gotham, with a day job in the family floral business.

In an early Birds of Prey issue, writer Chuck Dixon has Dinah briefly
married and divorced at a young age. Although ex-husband Craig Windrow
seems to need her help, he actually wants to reconcile after he
embezzles from the mob. Dinah's early marriage and ex-husband are
not mentioned again until the 2007 Black Canary limited series.

After joining the Justice League, Dinah meets Green Arrow (Oliver
Queen). Although she dislikes him at first, they become romantically
involved despite their age difference; opposite the earlier depiction,
in the Modern Age stories Oliver is considerably older than Dinah. Dinah
is a League member for about six years, including a brief stint with
Justice League International (JLI, which she helps found). After her
mother's death from radiation poisoning received during her battle with
Aquarius, Dinah feels that her time in the JLA is over. She moves to
Seattle with Green Arrow and opens a flower shop, Sherwood Florist.

When Dinah belonged to the JLI during the 1980s she wore a new costume,
a blue-and-black full-body jumpsuit with a bird motif and a slightly
looser fit instead of her traditional, skin-tight black outfit with
fishnet stockings. The change was poorly received and short-lived, and
later artists restored her original look.

Birds of Prey

When former Batgirl Barbara Gordon is seriously injured by the Joker,
she reestablishes her crime-fighting career as Oracle, information
broker to the superhero community. After briefly working with the
Suicide Squad, she forms a covert-mission team. Since Barbara thinks
that of all the superheroes Dinah has the most potential, Oracle asks
Black Canary to become an operative.

Black Canary reinvents herself, trading her blonde wig for bleached
blonde hair. Her relationship with Oracle is rocky at first, since her
impulsiveness clashes with Oracle's organization. Gradually, they learn
to work together and became friends. When Oracle flees from Blockbuster
Dinah rescues her and meets Barbara Gordon, deepening their
friendship.

[Shiva and the Black Canary; Birds of Prey #95 (August 2006) cover by
Brian Hurtt|thumb|left] Infinite Crisis gives Earth a new timeline,
with Wonder Woman again a founding member of the Justice League. In a
Week 51 back-up feature of 52, Black Canary is at the battle which
forms the League. Its core is Black Canary, Green Lantern (Hal Jordan),
the Martian Manhunter, the Flash (Barry Allen), Aquaman, Superman,
Batman and Wonder Woman. In the 2007 Black Canary miniseries, she and
Green Arrow join the Justice League after its founding and are tested by
founding member Batman early in their membership.

During publication of the Infinite Crisis limited series, most 
Universe comic books advanced one year. After this "One Year Later"
jump, Dinah trades life experiences with Lady Shiva to soften the
warrior and begins a harsh training regimen in an unidentified
Vietnamese shanty town. The regimen replicates Shiva's early life and
training, and Shiva assumes Dinah's role in Oracle's group.

During Countdown, several series include tie-ins and run-ups to the
wedding of Dinah and Ollie. The Black Canary Wedding Planner
details the preparations; in Birds of Prey #109, Dinah and Barbara
discuss the wedding (and Ollie). Countdown: Justice League Wedding
Special, and Justice League #13 deal with the bachelor and
bachelorette parties. A plot thread throughout is a plan by the
Injustice League to attack the wedding.

Dinah resigns as JLA chairwoman after the team's confrontation with the
Shadow Cabinet. After learning that Ollie began his own Justice League
with Hal Jordan, she confronts him when he arrives at the Watchtower to
warn her of an attack on the world's superheroes. Prometheus arrives
and attacks the team, severing Red Arrow's arm and maneuvering Dinah
into the path of an energy bolt fired by Mikaal Tomas. After
Prometheus is defeated, he destroys Star City with a teleportation
device. In their search for survivors, Dinah and Ollie discover the
bloody body of Roy's daughter, Lian. Dinah goes to Roy's hospital
bedside with Donna Troy to break the news about his daughter when he
emerges from his coma.

In Blackest Night, Dinah travels to Coast City to fight Nekron's army
of Black Lanterns. According to Nekron, he can control the heroes
(including Ollie) who have died and been resurrected. Dinah fights
her husband, now a Black Lantern, with Mia and Connor. Ollie regains
control of his body long enough to miss his wife with a shot which
severs a hose containing liquid nitrogen. Dinah orders Connor to use the
hose on Ollie, freezing him solid, and the three join the rest of the
heroes in battle.

When Ollie returns to normal, it is discovered that he secretly murdered
Prometheus and left his body to rot at his headquarters. After Barry
Allen and Hal Jordan confront Ollie and Dinah with the news, Ollie
escapes. Dinah, Hal and Barry search the ruins of Star City for him,
finding him looking for one of the men who worked for Prometheus. Ollie
overpowers them, leaving Dinah in a restraining fluid. After Green
Arrow surrenders for Prometheus' murder, Dinah visits him in jail and
realizes that he wants to be left alone. She removes her wedding ring,
leaving it with him, and does not attend his trial.

In Brightest Day, Dinah returns to Gotham in a relaunch of Birds of
Prey with Gail Simone. In Birds of Prey #1 (July 2010), she is sent
to save a child with Lady Blackhawk. After receiving a call from Oracle,
the team (including Huntress) is reunited. They are confronted by a new
villainess, White Canary, who has a grudge against Dinah and exposes her
civilian identity. After capturing White Canary (the vengeful sister
of the Twelve Brothers in Silk), Dinah learns that Lady Shiva is behind
the attack on the Birds. Dinah and White Canary travel to Bangkok;
when the Birds arrive a short time later, Dinah attacks them dressed as
White Canary. Later, Dinah reveals that Sin and her foster parents
are being held hostage, their lives threatened unless Dinah challenges
Lady Shiva to a fight to the death. Huntress offers to take Dinah's
place instead, reasoning that she has too many people who love her.
However, this gives Dinah the opportunity to rescue Sin with the help of
one of White Canary's students, Terry, and race back to halt the dual
between Helena and Shiva. While the duel is understood to be a matter of
duty and honor, Dinah brings to their attention that there was no time
mentioned and for now the fight must end, and to be resumed at a later
time. While White Canary is displeased, Shiva sides with Black Canary
and the Birds and the fight is over.

Bloodspell

Although the Black Canary-Zatanna graphic novel Bloodspell, written by
Paul Dini and drawn by Joe Quinones, was scheduled for a 2012 release,
it was delayed until May 2014. The story centers around the meeting
of 16-year-old Dinah and Zatanna.

The New 52

In the New 52, Dinah Lance, a founding member of the Birds of Prey,
recruits the team beginning with her friend Ev Crawford, known as
Starling. Eventually Katana and Poison Ivy also join the team. Initially
reluctant to join, Batgirl becomes a regular addition to the cast by the
fourth issue of the series. Black Canary's maiden name is Dinah
Drake instead of Lance (based on the original character), and was never
married to Oliver Queen in this continuity. Black Canary joins Team
7 in a flashback, and is drafted into the Justice League to assist
in the "Throne of Atlantis" crossover, and after which she remains a
reserve member.

Post-Flashpoint, Dinah Drake was born the child of a teenage single
mother, handed into foster care at the age of four. Considered a
troublemaker, she moved from foster home to foster home, and finally ran
away at the age of ten. Taking to the streets of Gotham, she was caught
dumpster diving by Desmond Lamar, an ex-Special Forces agent and martial
arts sensei who took her in, offering her a job to clean his dojo after
classes, and in return he would provide her with food and a safe place
to sleep. At her request, Lamar took to teaching her the same teaching
he provided his students, and she became his regular. When Lamar
contracted fatal brain cancer, he left her his dojo. Unfortunately, he
was the only one who could keep the local gangs from getting protection
money out of them. Dinah's martial arts prowess could only keep them at
bay for so long. Eventually she began losing students who feared the
possibility of their retaliation. During Zero Year, Dinah's dojo was
destroyed in a fire. It was at this point, John Lynch, impressed by her
martial arts prowess in taking down several ninjas during an attack,
recruited her into Team 7.

During her tenure with Team 7, Dinah works as a covert ops agent in
charge of infiltration. She is given the codename Operative Canary.

It is during this time that Dinah secretly marries her longtime partner,
Kurt Lance. Her powers are subsequently awakened after being tested
metagene-positive.

Toward the end of the Team 7 run during a mission to retrieve Pandora's
Box, Dinah's sonic scream surfaces and are amplified by Kurt's, the
after-effect of which ultimately destroyed the island of Gamorra. In the
aftermath, Kurt is presumed dead and Team 7 is mothballed, leaving Dinah
a fugitive on the run from authorities and an outlaw codenaming herself
Black Canary.

After Team 7, Black Canary continues freelance covert operations hunting
the terrorist network known as Basilisk, and later attempts to form
a team recruiting Starling, Katana, Poison Ivy, and later Batgirl.

The team is ambushed by treachery from Poison Ivy and eventually
Starling, pressuring Dinah to question her leadership. As the team
roster progresses and evolves following the departure of Katana to
include Strix and Condor, Dinah's questioning reaches its peak to erupt
trust issues and notably with Batgirl when she discovers her powers are
being manipulated by an apparently alive Kurt Lance.

For a time, Black Canary was recruited as a reserve member of the
Justice League in the fight against Ocean Master and his army during the
Throne of Atlantis arc.

Throughout her missions with the Birds, Dinah encounters and protects an
elderly woman, Miss Ettie, later revealed to be known as Mother Eve, a
centuries-old woman hunted by Ra's al Ghul for her immortality which
takes place in the form of her metamorphosis into her youth after every
life. She claims that in nearly every life, she was a mother and
outlived her children, some of whom have developed unique abilities
genetically, and believes that Dinah might have gained her abilities
through a genetic link to her.

When Dinah's husband Kurt is found to have no memory of his past life
with her, and realizes Amanda Waller is involved, she summons Waller to
seek for answers during a mission against the Suicide Squad.
Confronting Waller, she is informed that Kurt was revived by a Samsara
Serum, and the resurrection process damaged his memory. With the truth
of Dinah's past and her setting up of this meeting with Waller shared
with the Birds, Batgirl confronts Dinah on her leadership and angrily
disapproves of Dinah's actions in keeping it from the team. As a result,
the Birds of Prey part ways.

After a long rift, Dinah returns to apologize to Barbara, and is forced
to move in with her when her dojo is burned down (partially due to
Barbara's fault). It is later revealed that Dinah has become the
lead singer of a band called Ashes on Sunday.

Convergence

During the Convergence event, pre-flashpoint Black Canary aids Oracle in
defeating the Hawkman and Hawkwoman of the Flashpoint timeline using her
Canary Cry.

Post-Convergence

After her stint with Ashes on Sunday, Dinah received an offer from A&B
Records for an album and go on tour, and joins a rock band she named
Black Canary.

As the lead singer of Black Canary, Dinah attempts to leave her past
life behind and takes to the stage name D.D., joining the likes of
drummer Lord Byron, keyboardist Paloma Terrific and mute guitarist Ditto
- all of whom are accompanied by the band's tour manager, Heathcliff
Ray. However, when her friends' lives are threatened, Dinah dedicates
herself to training them in battle.


Powers, abilities and equipment

The original Black Canary had no superpowers, but was a prodigious
fighter. Over the years, Black Canary's stories emphasized her physical
skills and fighting prowess over inborn abilities. She is regarded as
one of the  Universe's top martial artists and she is regularly paired
up in fights against high-tier fighters like Lady Shiva. Her quick
reflexes enable her to catch (or destroy) arrows in flight, and she is
an expert motorcyclist.

Due to the strong, yet uncontrollable, nature of her superpowers, she
tends to only make use of them in urgent situations. During times of
stress, the Black Canary creates sonic vibrations capable of destroying
whatever is obstructing her mouth. This ability is called the Canary
Cry. For a period of time, the Black Canary lost her Canary Cry
during the Green Arrow series, but eventually regained it following
immersion in a Lazarus Pit in an issue of Birds of Prey some years
later.

Following The New 52 reboot, Dinah first comes into her powers as an
adult after being tested positive for metagene by her bosses in Team 7.
After her husband is shot, she unleashes her devastating Canary Cry. In
this era, writers expanded the potential application of the Cry. In
Birds of Prey #10 (2012), Black Canary glides across a gorge over
sonic waves, explaining that she has been holding back since her husband
died. In later issues, she uses the Canary Cry to glide and propel
herself over long distances. Later, Black Canary (vol. 4) #3 (2015)
series establishes that her metahuman abilities in fact originate from
being treated with the genes of an alien girl named Ditto.


Other versions


In other media

Although she has a lower profile than  flagship characters Superman,
Batman and Wonder Woman, Black Canary has appeared in live-action and
animated adaptations of  properties and in video games based on the
comic books.

Live action

Black Canary's first live-action appearance was Danulta Wesley's 1979
portrayal in NBC's two Legends of the Superheroes specials. The
character appeared in the short-lived 2002 television series Birds of
Prey, an adaptation of the comic book. Dinah Lance became Dinah Redmond
(played by Rachel Skarsten), a teenage runaway with psychic powers. Her
mother Carolyn Lance (played by Lori Loughlin) was Black Canary with a
supersonic Canary Cry. In 2008, Smallville introduced Black Canary
(played by Alaina Huffman) as an assassin who is recruited for Green
Arrow's team of superheroes. She appears in a number of episodes,
including several season premieres and finales.

Arrowverse

The 2012 television series Arrow features Dinah Laurel Lance (Katie
Cassidy), commonly known as Laurel, an attorney who is the ex-girlfriend
of Oliver Queen (Stephen Amell). Her mother is Dinah Lance (Alex
Kingston). In the second season, Sara Lance (Caity Lotz) appears in
Starling City as the Canary. She leaves Starling City after helping
Oliver defeat Deathstroke (Manu Bennett), handing her Canary jacket to
Laurel. In the third season, Laurel takes over Sara's mantle as the
Black Canary after her sister is murdered and following some training
from former vigilante Ted Grant (J.R. Ramirez). Later Ra's al Ghul's
(Matthew Nable) daughter Nyssa (Katrina Law) offers to train Laurel,
which she accepts, and Laurel gradually becomes a skilled fighter and is
accepted by Oliver as a worthy vigilante. She continues to fight crime
at Oliver's side until season four episode "Eleven Fifty-Nine", when she
is stabbed and killed by Damien Darhk (Neal McDonough).

-   The character also appears in a crossover with The Flash;
    mechanical genius Cisco Ramon (Carlos Valdes) provides an ultrasonic
    collar for Laurel, and requests she name its effect the Canary Cry.
    Cassidy also portrays Laurel's Earth-Two counterpart, Black Siren,
    in season two.
-   In the fourth season of Arrow, Sara is resurrected via the Lazarus
    Pit and later her soul is restored through a 'reverse exorcism'
    performed by John Constantine. Seeking a new life, she is recruited
    by Rip Hunter to hunt down Vandal Savage across time and takes the
    new codename White Canary, suggested by Laurel, in the spin-off
    series Legends of Tomorrow.

Animation

Animated depictions of Black Canary have largely been faithful to the
source material. The Dinah Drake version is the basis of the character
Donna Vance, the Black Siren (voiced by Jennifer Hale), in the Justice
League animated series episode "Legends" (2002). The Dinah Laurel Lance
version (voiced by Morena Baccarin) appears in the sequel series
Justice League Unlimited (2004–2006), where she is a member of the
Justice League, develops a romantic relationship with Green Arrow and a
partnership with Huntress during the series.

Batman: The Brave and the Bold (2008–2011) featured Black Canary
(voiced by Grey DeLisle) in a number of episodes. In one, she forms the
Birds of Prey with Catwoman and Huntress. In another, her canary cry
is used to break a spell done by the Music Meister.

Young Justice (2010–2013) features Black Canary (voiced by Vanessa
Marshall) as a member of the Justice League and combat trainer for the
show's team of teenage superheroes. Her relationship with Green Arrow
links her to his family of superheroes.

Classic and modern versions of the character appear in several 
Universe Animated Original Movies. Kari Wahlgren voices Black Canary in
the Green Arrow series of  Nation Shorts.

The Dinah Drake version of Black Canary makes a cameo in  Super Hero
Girls, graduating from Super Hero High.

Video games

Jennifer Hale and Grey DeLisle reprise the character in video games,
appearing in Justice League Heroes for PlayStation Portable and
Batman: The Brave and the Bold – The Videogame respectively. In 
Universe Online, Black Canary is a non-playable character voiced by
Kelley Huston. The character appears in Lego Batman 2:  Super Heroes
and in Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham voiced by Kari Wahlgren. She's
also included in Young Justice: Legacy.

Music

In 2016,  released a three-track musical album called EP 1 to
promote the comic book, in which Black Canary becomes the lead singer of
a band that shares her name. Michelle Bensimon provided Black Canary's
singing voice.

