BLOODWYND is a fictional necromancer published by . He first
appears in Justice League America #61 (April 1992), and was created
by Dan Jurgens.


Fictional character biography

Bloodwynd is the descendant of a group of African-American slaves owned
by a brutal, sadistic planter named Jacob Whitney. These slaves
performed an ancient ritual to create a mystical Blood Gem, with which
they killed Whitney. The Blood Gem was passed down among the slaves'
descendants. The Gem bestowed great physical powers on its wearer;
unbeknownst to them, it also contained a microscopic world, where Jacob
Whitney's spirit had become incarnate as the demon ROTT. Over the years
Rott grew ever stronger, as the Gem absorbed the dark side of each
wearer's soul.

In recent times, Rott sucked Bloodwynd into the Gem and held him
captive, whilst mind controlling the Martian Manhunter, compelling him
to wear the Gem and impersonate Bloodwynd. Using Bloodwynd's identity,
the Manhunter rejoined the Justice League, seeking a power source which
would enable Rott to escape from his micro-world. While the JLA fought
Doomsday alongside Superman, Blue Beetle realized Bloodwynd's identity
when his cryptic teammate was incapacitated by fire (to which the
Martian Manhunter was especially vulnerable). Once the truth was
exposed, the Justice League battled Rott and freed the real Bloodwynd.

[Bloodwynd punishes,
art by Max Douglas] Bloodwynd remained with the Justice League after
they rescued him from imprisonment within the Gem. Later, he withheld
information from the League about an offer of alliance from the mystical
villain Dreamslayer. Bloodwynd did not join Dreamslayer. Sensing a
strange kinship with him, however, he would not oppose him either.

During the Overmaster storyline, Bloodwynd was also strangely inactive,
refusing to take action against what he perceived to be a natural course
of events. These two incidents caused Bloodwynd to question his
membership in the League. He voluntarily put himself on reserve status.

He later appeared in Showcase '94 #5 (May 1994), written by Ruben Diaz
and illustrated by Max Douglas. In this story, Bloodwynd reveals more
about the nature of his morality and powers, and punishes a drug dealer
by forcing him to experience the pain of his victims.

In JLA #27 (March 1999), Bloodwynd officially joins an emergency
expansion of the Justice League in order to battle a rampaging Amazo.
The battle, which takes place in the Florida Everglades, goes badly as
most of the JLA are defeated and their powers copied. Amazo loses his
powers when Superman officially disbands the league.

Day of Judgment

He was last seen during the Day of Judgement storyline and in JLA
Black Baptism serving as a member of the Sentinels of Magic. In the
latter storyline, he was badly injured by the Diablos, a group of
Mafia-styled demons who wished to gain revenge for demons slain during
the Day of Judgement.

He was seen in a cameo during a bar brawl in the Oblivion Bar in
Superman/Batman.

Alternate versions

Bloodwynd is later seen assisting a group of other-dimensional heroes in
repairing their space station. He then assists as part of a super-army
in taking down multiple cosmic threats against the entire multiverse.


A different Bloodwynd is part of an Earth which is free of crime due to
Superman's robots. Bloodwynd manages to break free of the ennui
surrounding the heroes as he recalls his heroic past; he realizes there
is more to life then letting the robots handle everything. 


Powers and abilities

The Blood Gem on Bloodwynd's chest is the main source of his powers. It
grants him the power of flight, optic blasts, superhuman strength and
durability as well as other unspecified mystical powers. The limits of
his power are unknown, but have been hinted to be vast. In an encounter
with the energy draining villain Starbreaker; the villain is shocked by
the amount of energy inside Bloodwynd, stating it exceeds even that of
Superman. Bloodwynd is also an accomplished necromancer. He can
summon the spirits of the dead, which give him life energy and increased
power. He can sense where death has occurred and also force murderers to
experience the pain of their victims similar to Ghost Rider's "Penance
Stare" 

