BLUE DEVIL (DAN CASSIDY) is a fictional character, a superhero featured
in material published by . He first appeared in a special
insert published in Fury of Firestorm #24 (June 1984). That story
led directly into Blue Devil #1, also cover dated June 1984. He was
created by Dan Mishkin, Gary Cohn, and Paris Cullins. The Blue Devil
comic book ran for 32 issues with Blue Devil later appearing as a
regular character in Shadowpact that ran for 25 issues.

Dan Cassidy was working as a Stuntman and special effects specialist in
Hollywood when he created the Blue Devil full body suit, complete with a
built in exoskeleton, specifically designed for a movie he was filming.
During the movie the demon Nebiros thought Cassidy was an actual demon
and tried to drain his demonic powers, which resulted in Cassidy being
stuck in the suit. After being stuck in the suit Cassidy embarks on a
career as a super hero. At a later date Cassidy is transformed into an
actual demon after making a deal with the demon Neron. Regretting the
deal Blue Devil decided to fight occult evil, often alongside the other
members of Shadowpact.

His original trident was a mechanical device that Cassidy designed
himself, but when he was turned into an actual demon he acquired the
"Trident of Lucifer" to help combat demons. Blue Devil appeared in
episodes of the Justice League Unlimited cartoon as well as a brief
appearance in the Young Justice show.


Concept and creation

Gary Cohn recounted how he and writing partner Dan Mishkin created Blue
Devil:

  Our editor for a number of things we were doing was a guy named Dave
  Manak. At this point, Dan [Mishkin] was living in Michigan and I was
  in New York. I was the point guy who went to the  office once a week
  and schmoozed the editors. One day Manak says, "Ditko’s been hanging
  around the office and he really wants something to do. Do you think
  you and Dan can come up for something for him?" I went home and I
  called Dan and told him about this, and we were both very excited.
  Ditko was the guy who created Spider-Man and Dr. Strange, and we were
  gaga for Ditko! ... We decided to do something that takes something
  from every  character we ever loved. Let’s take Iron Man, the
  guy in the costume; the Thing, the tragedy of the guy stuck in a shape
  he didn’t want; and a light-hearted, bouncy approach and a character
  who was going to move like Spider-Man. ... And we wanted something
  like the Green Goblin. How about Blue Devil? We called him that
  because Dan’s wife is from North Carolina and he was a Blue Devils
  fan. Then we started creating Blue Devil and thinking, "Ditko is going
  to love this!" We created this great proposal, and it was everything
  that we knew was going to set Ditko’s light on high beam. We took it
  in to Manak and he gave it to Ditko. Ditko looked at it and said,
  "I’ll do it if I have to, but this is really not my kind of stuff at
  all."

However, Manak liked the proposal and suggested that they show it to
artist Paris Cullins. Cullins was immediately enthusiastic, and Blue
Devil was given his own series.

Blue Devil's costume and general visual appearance were chiefly designed
by Cohn; Cullins came up with the belt design.


Publication history

Co-writer Gary Cohn recounted that "The first six issues [of Blue
Devil], I was living in Brooklyn and Paris [Cullins] was living in
Philly. Paris was kind of a vagabond spirit. He would show up in New
York on the train with his sketchbook, his artist satchel, and his
toothbrush, and he would come to my place and stay for three or four
days. We would spend the whole time creating plots and visuals as we
went, laughing hysterically. We were constantly calling Dan [Mishkin].
It was not the stiff process of writing a script, giving it to the
artist, or even writing a plot and giving it to an artist. It was a very
organic collaboration." Following issue #6, Cullins left the series,
and both Mishkin and Cohn felt that none of the succeeding artists were
able to capture the combination of thrills and comedy that they wanted
the series to have.

The first Blue Devil series was intentionally written as a humorous
and light-hearted comic book story, but this light-hearted style was
discarded with later appearances of the character.


Fictional character biography

DANIEL PATRICK CASSIDY is a special effects wizard and stuntman hired to
create and play the title character in the movie Blue Devil. To that
end Cassidy creates a full-body costume with a hidden powered
exoskeleton and built-in special-effects devices. When two of his
co-stars accidentally free a demon named Nebiros, Cassidy uses his
costume to drive the demon back, but not before being blasted with
mystical energy. After the fight, Cassidy finds that the blast has
permanently grafted the Blue Devil costume to his body.

Cassidy quickly finds himself embroiled in repeated adventures and
conflicts with supervillains, as his newfound status has turned him into
a "weirdness magnet." After failing to find a way to remove his costume,
Cassidy starts to enjoy his new lifestyle, and becomes more and more
comfortable as a superhero, even accepting a place in the Justice League
of America. He gains a sidekick of some sort, when Eddie Bloomberg, his
former gofer and devoted fan, designs a suit similar to his own to
adventure as the Kid Devil. Eventually, he moves into "The House of
Weirdness" with Cain the Caretaker as his superintendent.

Blue Demon and later alliances

Seeking more fame and thrills, Blue Devil is approached by the demon
Neron. Neron is known for offering Faustian bargains to heroes and
villains alike. Neron offers Cassidy fame as an actor, requiring an act
of destruction as payment. Neron sends Cassidy to destroy an unmanned
electrical substation in the desert. Believing it to be a relatively
harmless act, Blue Devil complies and inadvertently causes the death of
Eddie's Aunt Marlene, Cassidy's best friend. The story of his personal
loss is enough to attract several movie offers.

Opposing Neron, Cassidy is able to partly foil the demon's short-term
plans, but he dies in the process. Cassidy's death is short-lived, as he
is restored to life as a real devil, no longer a man in an organic suit.
Ironically, Cassidy had been a devout Catholic, but now is unable to set
foot on consecrated ground without harmfully bursting into flame.

Blue Devil joins the Justice League again, until his second death at the
hands of Mist, who showers him with holy water. Blue Devil is
resurrected again by Sebastian Faust, who hopes to gain his assistance
restarting the fires of Hell during the Day of Judgment storyline. Blue
Devil has a chance to confront Nebiros, empowered by a magic trident
seemingly given by the King of Lies himself. Blue Devil stalls Nebiros,
stripping him of his trident and allowing Firestorm to deal the killing
blow; back on Earth, the other heroes of the Sentinels of Magic save the
world.

Blue Devil then joins the Sentinels of Magic and becomes Faust's
partner, but it is an uneasy partnership. In an apparent act of
kindness, Faust restores Blue Devil's freedom by restoring to him his
last missing bone. Blue Devil sacrifices his life fighting Hermes
Trismegistus, but as a true devil he returns to life again. He is tasked
to roam the Earth with Lucifer's Trident sending escaped demons back to
Hell.

One Year Later

One Year Later Blue Devil is employed as a bouncer at the Oblivion Bar,
an interdimensional place for magical beings, and there he is recruited
by Ragman, Enchantress, and the Detective Chimp to fight against Spectre
in Day of Vengeance. With his enhanced demonic strength, he's the
heavy hitter of the Shadowpact, the assemblage of magical heroes devoted
to fight for every "lost cause." This grouping is even able to wound the
powerful Eclipso. Feeling necessary for the first time in a long time,
he devotes himself to the team. One of the goals they take on is to help
look over the wild magic of the "Tenth Age"; a direct result of the
events of Day of Vengeance.

He spends the "missing year" trapped in Riverrock, Wyoming along with
the rest of Shadowpact. It is a small city hidden by a blood shield by
an assembly of evil magical beings, called the Pentacle. There he meets,
or rather meets again, Jack of Fire, a red, muscular demon. The entity
is hiding a disfigured, bony face under a black bandanna, claiming to
have been turned into a demon by the actions of Daniel. He further
explains that the very same moment the demonic Neron granted fame and
powers to Cassidy as the Blue Devil, the dead parents and siblings of
Patrick were dragged from Heaven to Hell.

From then on, Blue Devil's life starts going downhill: even if in his
personal time line passed only a few days, the Enchantress was forced to
steal a year of life out of every Shadowpact member (and surviving
Riverrock towns person) to shatter the bloody barrier. As such, the
entire world had long thought Shadowpact lost, even building a memorial
statue. Having been considered dead for a year, Blue Devil struggles to
rebuild his life.

Blue Devil is forced to confront Kid Devil, now granted metahuman powers
by Neron himself. When questioned about his involvement in Marlene's
death, Blue Devil is forced to admit that his actions were what caused
her death. Due to the terms of his deal with Neron, that he would become
Neron's eternal servant on his 20th birthday should he lose his trust in
Blue Devil, Kid Devil realizes that he is now damned, having lost all
trust in Blue Devil following his confession. Kid Devil, enraged, yells
at Blue Devil to stay away from him and runs off, leaving a guiltridden
Blue Devil behind.

To add further misery to his condition, Blue Devil is demoted to the
rank of "rhyming demon." His new position results in the heroic
Earth-based angel Zauriel being sent to confront him. His demotion
is explained as the paradoxical condition of his being both a hero and a
demon: being famous and loved by everyone, he makes Hell a glamorous
place, spurring weak minds to attain his glamor by selling their souls
to hell. Zauriel, on behalf of his good faith, takes Blue Devil's place
in the Shadowpact, giving him enough time get out of his infernal deal.

Blue Devil puts his case in the hands of an eager lawyer, more than
happy to be able to confront Hell itself in a hall of justice. Blue
Devil undertakes the task of completing 13 labors, as Hercules before
him, on behalf of the Catholic Church as a show of good will.

Returning to Hell for the final hearing, he discovers that Jack of Fire
was the one selling his sibling's soul first, with Blue Devil merely
following unwillingly. His lawyer repeatedly proves that Jack is the
only one who can return Cassidy's soul, and the souls of his family,
back, since he was the one who sold them in the first place. Blue Devil
uses his new lower status as a rhyming demon to force Jack to do so, but
in the process he loses both Lucifer's Trident and his demon form,
reverting to a mortal.

Jack of Fire is now allied with a seemingly all-powerful Sun God, but
plots to betray him in retaliation for his harsh treatment and to lead
an army of demons on Earth. Cassidy feels forced to don a new suit of
armor, very similar to the one he wore during his Hollywood years, but
even more powerful. He sets off to fight his brother, who refuses.
Instead, after a brief confrontation, acknowledging that the Sun God
will eventually kill him for his betrayal, he commits suicide in front
of Cassidy, naming him inheritor of all his powers and demonic status -
but without forfeiting his soul. Cassidy rejoins the Shadowpact to
defeat the Sun God, and Zauriel ends his temporary membership with the
group.

During the Reign in Hell storyline, Cassidy convinces Zatanna and
Sargon the Sorcerer to take him to Hell and accompany him as to make a
deal with Lord Satanus against Neron; when, after much suffering, they
reach Satanus, he pleads to be incorporated into Satanus' attack force
in hopes of receiving the gift of full humanity from the demon in case
of his victory. Inadvertently, he brags about being capable of handling
Etrigan, who is causing damage to Satanus' forces; Satanus takes heed of
this and teleports him to do battle with Etrigan. Upon losing, the demon
steals the remains of his humanity.

Later, due to the effects of the magical drug Satanus has released all
over Hell, he is transformed into a human, but soulless. Etrigan, now
transformed into a replica of Jason Blood, offers him his soul back,
warning him the drug only worked on pureblood demons such as the type he
had been transformed into when Etrigan stole his soul, meaning accepting
it back meant returning to his demon shape forever. He is later
traumatized by Sargon's sacrifice to let almost all heroes intervening
in the War of Hell escape to Nanda Parbat, and is later the only one
convinced of reuniting the Shadowpact by Detective Chimp.

He appears with Zatanna and the Phantom Stranger at the desecrated grave
of Batman. Black rings take control of Crispus Allen. While Zatanna
is sent to gather the Justice League, Blue Devil and the Stranger
attempt to stop the Black Lantern Spectre, failing miserably. He and the
Stranger head to Nanda Parbat, where the Stranger helps Deadman remove
the black ring from his body. Blue Devil is then tasked by the Stranger
to protect the body, being told that it is of "singular importance."

The New 52

In The New 52 (a reboot of the  universe), Blue Devil busts
up a drug deal and runs into Black Lightning, who is also there to bust
the deal. They both state that they are trying to take down crime lord
Tobias Whale, but Black Lightning does not believe Blue Devil. A fight
ensues, but Blue Devil quickly gets the better of Black Lightning and
tries to make him listen, when he is interrupted by the LAPD, who are
ready to open-fire. Black Lightning takes that opportunity to run off
and Blue Devil manages to escape as well.

During the Forever Evil storyline (namely Forever Evil: Blight),
Blue Devil is among the magic users that were captured by Felix Faust
and Nick Necro in order to use them as part of a weapon that would
defeat the creature that destroyed the Crime Syndicate's Earth.


Powers and abilities

Even before he became Blue Devil, Dan Cassidy was a highly trained
martial artist and acrobat. His costume included Kevlar body armor,
visual and auditory amplifiers, radio gear, mini-gills allowing
underwater breathing, and servo-motors which increased his strength at
least twentyfold. After being grafted to Cassidy's body the costume
became organic and gained the ability to self-repair at an extremely
fast rate (effectively a healing factor). Cassidy's abilities seem to
have been changed little by his transformation into an actual demon.

In his current incarnation, Blue Devil still possesses some degree of
superhuman strength, capable of going toe-to-toe with beings like
Eclipso, and knocking out a power-drunk Enchantress in one punch. He is
also remarkably resistant to physical damage, evidenced when Eclipso
threw him a distance of approximately 500 feet upwards, he did not even
require time to recover before getting up and heading back into the
fight.

Originally, Blue Devil wielded a trident of his own design which
included, among other things, rocket engines capable of carrying two
people at high speeds. He now carries the TRIDENT OF LUCIFER, which
allows him to find demons on Earth and banish them to Hell. During a
battle with Eclipso and the Spectre the trident was thrown into the
ocean; it was recovered shortly after by Aquaman who returned it to
Cassidy, and much later given to Jack of Fire.

Briefly resuming his human body with a more powerful exosuit, Cassidy is
given back his trident and demonic powers by Jack of Fire, but as a
"demon with a soul".


Other versions

Kingdom Come

In Kingdom Come, there is a background character named BLUE DEVIL II,
an indigo-skinned demon with wings who was visually based on Chernabog,
the demon from the Disney film Fantasia.

Tangent Comics

In the 1997 Tangent Comics One Shot Sea Devils Blue Devil lends his name
to the brand of beer served at The Black Pirate pub in New Atlantis.
There is also a patron of the pub seen wearing a Blue Devil T-shirt.


In other media

Television

[Blue Devil in Justice League Unlimited in the episode "Dark Heart" as
he destroys robots with his trident.]

-   Blue Devil appeared in a few episodes of Justice League Unlimited
    voiced by Lex Lang. He mostly serves as a background character with
    non-speaking cameo appearances. He only spoke in the series finale
    episode "Destroyer", where he had one line to yell for everyone to
    go to the Javelins.
-   Blue Devil makes a non-speaking cameo appearance in the Young
    Justice episode "Revelation". He is shown helping the Flash and
    Captain Atom prevent a nuclear meltdown caused by gigantic
    moving plants. In "Agendas," Blue Devil is considered for membership
    in the Justice League. The suggestion ends up being passed over. In
    the second season's finale, "Endgame", he is seen with the Justice
    League plotting to sabotage Reach technology set to destroy
    the world.
-   A "Blue Devil" movie poster is seen on a Starling City bus in the
    Season 2 Arrow episode "Time of Death".
-   A movie sign for "Blue Devil 2 - Hell to Pay" can be seen at a movie
    theater Barry Allen and Iris West visit in the Flash episode
    "Things You Can't Outrun".

Toys

-   Blue Devil was the sixth figure released in the thirteenth wave of
    the  Universe Classics line. He appears in his regular costume and
    his accessory is his trident.

Miscellaneous

-   In the comic book adaptation of Justice League Unlimited, Blue
    Devil is the featured character of issue number 25.

