BOODIKKA is a fictional character featured in comic books published by
. Boodikka is a tall, well-muscled humanoid alien female with
pink skin and reddish black hair. Her name is a play on the ancient
British warrior-queen Boudica.


Fictional character biography

At three centuries of age, the warrior Boodikka of the planet Bellatrix
was originally recruited by the sphere-like Chaselon of Barrio III to
join the then-reconstituted Green Lantern Corps. Not long before,
Boodikka had belonged to something called the "Bellatrix Bombers", a
group of women mercenaries for hire by planets to clear the spaceways of
hostile forces. The "Bellatrix Bombers" had broken up at some point, the
majority of the team apparently having been killed along the way.

Initially Hal Jordan was dismayed and otherwise put off by Boodikka's
inherently aggressive attitude. Nevertheless, despite this, Kilowog, a
renowned trainer in the Corps – the first trainer of Jordan himself –
(the original Green Lantern: Emerald Dawn)_, was only too eager to
train someone so challenging and gave her his recommendation as a
candidate. Jordan, it seemed, did indeed reject her. Things moved
quickly at this point, and Boodikka soon found herself thrust into
battle with Star Sapphire. She and the rest of the Corps joined in the
fight against Hal's one-time love, the mercenary Flicker, and an entire
Teban convoy.

Some time later, new recruits of the Green Lantern Corps were shown the
Book of Oa, a book kept by the Guardians of the Universe which told
tales of Green Lanterns past, present, and future. They learned stories
which would help them be better Green Lanterns. Kilowog spent time with
the recruits, telling them more stories of the Corps during their
training. The new members had this training disrupted when they went
to Earth to help free Hal Jordan from the influence of the villain
Eclipso. They were no match for the eclipsed Jordan and Star Sapphire.
Eclipso managed to escape the Corps and soon they returned to Oa. Guy
Gardner was awarded a ring by the Guardians of the Universe to act as
temporary Green Lantern of Space Sector 2814.

She would quickly prove to be a skilled power ring wielder, a worthwhile
addition to the Green Lantern Corps. Nevertheless, her problem with
authority and authority figures would still pose a continuing problem.
She was often at odds with Kreon of Tebis, another new recruit to the
Corps. As the former Chieftain of the Teban battle fleet, he was used to
discipline and military precision. Their infighting had even jeopardized
Oa and the Guardians during a Qwardian invasion. Guy Gardner had
returned to Oa to take the yellow power ring of Sinestro. Without
Kilowog to guide them, the Green Lanterns were in chaos. Their trainer
had gone to Earth to help free Hal from Eclipso. Gardner fought the
Qwardians where the Green Lanterns could not.

Kreon

Kreon and Boodikka came to blows when the rival Green Lantern criticized
her for being an undisciplined fighter. Kilowog then separated them, but
their disagreement seemed to be spreading amongst the rest of the Corps
with sides being drawn between male and female recruits. Running out of
options, Kilowog brought the two squabbling Green Lanterns to John
Stewart as a "guest lecturer" in cooperation and tolerance. Stewart
could not teach the two Green Lanterns to like each other, but he could
teach them to need each other. Taking the initiative he performed a mind
scan on the two recruits and somehow exchanged their consciousnesses.
The two Green Lanterns were taken one step out of reality.

Soon, each came face to face with their ultimate fears. The fear of
Kreon was represented by "Mama Denata" and seemed to represent his fear
of the uncontrollable. Boodikka's fear was "the Chain Men" which
represented the suffocation she felt by authoritative restraints. The
two – independently – seemed to be unable to directly fight their fears.
Instead, the two had no choice but to learn to work together or be
defeated. Boodikka had no problem handling Kreon's nemesis and called
upon him to return the favor and defeat "Mama Denata" and assist her.
Kreon also did not suspect he would have much trouble with "the Chain
Men" and accepted Boodikka's offer. The two rivals exchanged nemeses and
were triumphant... and a newfound respect was born.

Boodikka never lost her love of battle. She eagerly fought against the
incarnation of Entropy, even though the encounter then-seemed to mean
certain death. Boodikka proved to have come a long way as a Green
Lantern, then working as a team with the other members of the Corps to
defeat Entropy.

In a space sector far removed from our own galaxy, Boodikka was assigned
to investigate the deaths of multiple alien races. These numerous races
had suddenly destroyed themselves in an apparent mass-suicide,
environmental destruction, or otherwise massive wars. Upon arriving on a
world already in the midst of tearing itself apart, Boodikka encountered
Guy Gardner. He and his colleagues, the "Gardners of the Universe," had
been dispatched to solve the same problem as Boodikka.

Guy sought to prove to his leadership abilities to his team of
super-powered aliens from across known space. It was not long until
Gardner got into an altercation with the Green Lantern. It was during
this fight that Guy realized his yellow ring was powered by the energy
of the Green Lanterns' power rings. Fully charged then, Gardner's
yellow power ring enabled him to recognize the true threat. Created in
the anti-matter universe of Qward, his power ring negated the mental
block of the real attackers. Gardner used his ring to free the others
from their trance. He would learn the true story from a native.

Boodikka's respite would not last long. An alien race called the
Ophidians had come to cleanse known space. On two occasions in their
sordid past they had been nearly annihilated by alien invaders – then
since confining themselves to eradicating all other life in the universe
to insure their pseudo-religious quest would never again be in harm's
way. The Ophidians would entrance their victims before causing them to
fight amongst themselves all the way to extinction. As the Ophidian ship
managed to elude them, Boodikka and Gardner had to join their minds
together to achieve the speed needed to overtake them. When they reached
the ship, it exploded. Whether this was a result of feedback from the
two fighting off the mind control or self-destruction, is unknown. The
pair now had no way to find the Ophidian's homeworld. After the battle,
Boodikka called upon the Guardians of the Universe to consult in the
matter of recovering Gardner's Qwardian power ring. The Guardians,
however, had determined Gardner was working toward the same ends they
were. Although they would be watching Gardner, they decided not to act
on Gardner for the time being.

A fierce warrior, Boodikka was well-versed in many combative arts
including the use of short-swords, handguns, and explosives. Often she
would visit her own mother for combat. On Bellatrix, this was considered
a good time. Boodikka's own grandmother had been killed by her own
daughter. Arisia, a former Green Lantern of Graxos IV and onetime love
of Hal Jordan, told this story to Justice Leaguers Power Girl, Doctor
Light, and Maya when they inquired about women in the Green Lantern
Corps.

At one point the Green Lantern Corps were called upon to help Hal Jordan
on the planet Maltus. He had been fighting the Maltusian gods known as
the Triarch and was also under attack by the Darkstars and the
L.E.G.I.O.N. Boodikka was as smitten as any Bellatrix women would be
regarding the fighting prowess of Lobo, bounty hunter and L.E.G.I.O.N.
operative. The two stopped in mid-fight and went "somewhere" at Lobo's
suggestion for a formidable love-making session that would last some
time. Lobo did not take kindly to interruptions, and the two of them
missed the entire fight.

Adding to her existing duties, Boodikka eventually became a kind of
recruiter for the Corps. In her search she would encounter Barin, a
young soldier of a kindred warrior species who she believed would prove
to be an asset to her brethren. As events would turn out, Barin was not
quite at a point where he was ready to fight solo. Upon his first outing
alone he was quickly besieged by a kind of space mongrels. Overwhelmed,
Barin went into shock. Kilowog found him in a comatose state. The
would-be Lantern was brought to Oa where he was connected to life
support systems. Since the destruction of Oa by both the Parallax-ridden
Hal Jordan and its resurrection by Kyle Rayner, Barin's ultimate fate
remains unknown.

Emerald Twilight and beyond

Her next mission was to stop Hal Jordan from reaching Oa during Emerald
Twilight by the direct order of the Guardians of the Universe. Although
she fought well, she was no match for Jordan's willpower. Because she
was unwilling to give up her ring freely, Jordan severed Boodikka's hand
to take her ring from it. Jordan left her floating in space, who
continued on towards Oa where he would soon become Parallax
entirely. Jordan later mentioned that he had left Boodikka, along
with the other Green Lanterns he had confronted on the way to Oa, with
"enough power to survive" even after taking their rings.

Later it was revealed that Boodikka had indeed survived, joining "The
Brotherhood of the Cold Flame" on the planet Xudar with other former
Green Lanterns to find the means to atone for the crimes of Hal Jordan
during Emerald Twilight. _"After the utter rape and destruction of our
brothers and sisters in the Corps, we survivors found one another and
pledged an oath – to bind together in honor of the fallen, doing all
that we could to heal the scars of the past,"_ she told Tom Kalmaku, the
longtime confidant of Hal Jordan. The Brotherhood of the Cold flame,
using the spirit of the deceased Kilowog, created the "Dark Lantern," an
instrument of their vengeance against Boodikka's wishes.

Boodikka was later discovered by Hal Jordan and Guy Gardner on the
Manhunter homeworld of Biot, in a state of suspended animation with
other Green Lanterns – including Ke'Haan, Laira, Kreon, Graf Toren, Jack
T. Chance, and Hannu the LOST LANTERNS – Hal Jordan had left for dead
during Emerald Twilight._ At some point in time the Manhunters, in
concert with Hank Henshaw, had gathered up these former Green Lanterns,
put them into suspended animation, and used their energies as a battery
to create more advanced Manhunters. Strangely, upon being freed from her
slumber Boodikka seemed shocked that she no longer had her hand, and
following commentary implied her last conscious memory was of fighting
the Parallax-possessed Hal Jordan despite having lived some time after
her maiming (and free of any kind of captivity) on Xudar as part of the
"Brotherhood of the Cold Flame". How or why Boodikka was
captured while on Xudar (assuming she still remained there) remains
unknown. During the confrontation with the Manhunters, Kreon dies and
his ring chooses Boodikka. She resumes her duties in the Green
Lantern Corps, replacing her lost hand with an emerald one fueled by her
Power Ring energies.

Boodikka and her fellow Lost Lanterns kept their distance from Hal
Jordan, until Parallax (in the form of Kyle Rayner) brought him to
Qward, and they followed, knowing that "The Corps doesn't abandon its
own". When Parallax killed Chance, she attempted to vaporise him,
which her ring recognised as an illegal action, consequently shutting
down, leaving her helpless. Boodikka then went with Ke'Haan and Laira to
find Ion, deep beneath Qward. Instead, they run into the
Anti-Monitor. Ke'Haan was killed, but the others managed to rescue Ion,
and return to Oa. At the same time, the Guardians had rewritten the Book
of Oa, allowing Lanterns to use lethal force, returning control of the
ring to Boodikka.

Post-Sinestro Corps War

[Boodikka as an Alpha Lantern] Boodikka became a member of the Alpha
Lanterns, an internal policing force within the Corps itself, soon after
the Sinestro War and the enactment of the Second Law of the Book of Oa.
The Alpha Lanterns make sure that no Corps member performs an illegal
action using a power ring. Each Alpha Lantern receives a second power
ring and receives direct connections to the Book of Oa's Laws and the
Central Power Battery. However, the process involves surgical alteration
into a hybrid of the individual recruit's biological form and updated
Manhunter technology. In other words, Alpha Lanterns are
cyborgs.

Boodikka and the Alpha Lanterns are seen in Final Crisis. Fellow Alpha
Lantern Kraken is revealed to be taken over by Granny Goodness during
Hal Jordan's trial after the Alphas had arrested Hal for the murder of
Orion.

Brightest Day

Alpha Lantern Boodikka is shown to have been controlled by Cyborg
Superman. As she attacks Kyle Rayner, Soranik Natu, and John
Stewart, Green Lantern member Hannu ambushes her and manages to damage
her severely. This temporarily frees her from Cyborg Superman's control
and she instructs the other Lanterns to recharge the battery with the
energy she has absorbed. Her fellow Lanterns are able to repair her
enough for her to fight, and she joins in the attack on the Cyborg
Superman's base. During the battle, the Cyborg's body is destroyed, and
his consciousness attempts to take control of Boodikka's body.
Boodikka's consciousness fights back, defeating him. On her return to
Oa, Boodikka is made a member of the Lantern Honor Guard, her emotions
restored due to the way she was freed from the Cyborg's control.
However, Ganthet noted immediately that there was something different
about her. Boodikka asserts this is because Ganthet's newly discovered
emotions allowed her to be who she is (Boodikka's true self, now in
control of her body again), not what she is (an Alpha Lantern).

Reign of Doomsday

Boodikka later appears at the remains of the destroyed planet New
Krypton, where she encounters Batman and Supergirl of the Justice
League. Boodikka explains that the Guardians had sent her on a mission
to survey the ruins as a follow-up to the initial Green Lantern Corps
inspection of the planet that took place during the World of New
Krypton storyline. Suddenly, the heroes are attacked by Doomsday, who
strikes Boodikka across the back before she has a chance to react. Due
to her injuries, Boodikka is unable to effectively wield her ring, and
is nearly captured by the creature before being rescued by Supergirl.
With Starman and Saint Walker of the Blue Lantern Corps serving as a
distraction, Batman and Supergirl are able to get the injured Boodikka
to the JLA Watchtower. Doomsday follows them aboard, and just as he is
about to attack them, Cyborg Superman emerges from Boodikka's body and
states that Doomsday attacked Boodikka and the JLA members in order to
get to him.

After Doomsday captures Supergirl and Cyborg Superman and then flees the
Watchtower, Starman mentions that Boodikka is healing herself in the JLA
medical facility, and that she should soon have enough energy to return
to Oa.

Following the War of the Green Lanterns storyline, Boodikka and the
Alpha Lanterns were killed by Alpha Lantern Varix that who felt that the
Alpha Lanterns were being corrupted into judgement against John Stewart
during his trial, Varix then killed himself. Afterwards, the bodies of
Alpha Lanterns were interned on Oa.


In other media

Television

-   Boodikka appears briefly in the Duck Dodgers episode "The Green
    Loontern" as one of the Lanterns defending Oa from Sinestro, voiced
    by Grey DeLisle. She is later rescued by Dodgers and the rest of
    the Corps.

Film

-   Boodikka appears in Green Lantern: First Flight voiced by Tricia
    Helfer. This version of Boodikka is radically different from her
    comic version, in that she is a co-conspirator with Sinestro. In a
    fight with Hal Jordan and Kilowog, she is killed when impaled after
    an explosion with her shooting Kanjar Ro's energy staff.
-   Boodikka has a cameo appearance in Green Lantern: Emerald Knights,
    reprised by Grey DeLisle who was uncredited for the role.
-   Boodikka also appears in the live-action Green Lantern film in a
    cameo in a few scenes in the film. Although she is very similar to
    humans in appearance in the comics, no actress was cast for the role
    and CGI was used instead, to portray her.

