BORK is a fictional character, a superhero in the  universe.
Created by Bob Haney and Neal Adams, the character first appeared in
Brave and the Bold series 1 #81 (December 1968) and was later
re-introduced in JLA #61/2 (February 2002).


Fictional character biography

Early years

CARL ANDREW BORK was a criminal dock worker from Gotham City who went by
the nickname King of the Docks. After a shipboard theft in the South
Pacific during which he saved a young native boy from drowning, he
discovers Desolation Island. In thanks for Bork's rescue of the young
boy, the Desolation Island natives give him a 'magic' statue which
eventually transforms him, and makes him invulnerable to physical harm.
The Flash found the statue on Desolation Island and tried to destroy it,
but all his attempts failed until he was able to throw it into the sun.
Once the statue was destroyed Bork's invulnerability disappeared. [Bork
can hurt you, artist Neal Adams] Bork served hard time in the Van Kull
Maximum Security facility outside Metropolis. While in prison, his body
began to mutate. His invulnerability returned along with super-strength
and an increasingly deformed physique. He escaped Van Kull, and was
opposed by Batman and the Flash, but managed to elude them and visit his
mother in Newark, New Jersey. After his mother collapsed from a weak
heart, Batman talked Bork into surrendering himself to the authorities
on the condition that they help her to get well. Bork peacefully served
the remainder of his prison sentence, and Batman arranged for his mother
to get the best medical treatment available, and had the Wayne
Foundation pay her hospital bills.

The Power Company

After his parole, Bork attempted to find gainful legitimate employment,
but was hampered by the disadvantages of his criminal record and
monstrous appearance. He was later approached by Josiah Power with a job
offer to join a new corporate heroes-for-hire organization called the
Power Company. Bork accepted Josiah's offer and joined the team as an
associate, later becoming roommates with co-worker Sapphire.

One Year Later

In JSA Classified #19, Bork is an unwilling participant in one of
Roulette's metahuman brawls, fighting against the current Son of Vulcan.

In Superman #663 Bork is a client of Oblivion Bar with Witchfire and
Traci Thirteen.


Powers and abilities

-   Bork has magically derived strength and invulnerability. It is
    unknown whether the Tenth Age of magic has had any effect on him.

