BOUNCING BOY, a fictional character from the  Universe, is a
30th-century superhero known for being a member of the Legion of
Super-Heroes. Born on Earth as CHUCK TAINE, Bouncing Boy has the power
to inflate like a giant ball and bounce around. This combination of
invulnerability and velocity makes him a surprisingly useful combatant.
Born on Earth without any powers, he received his abilities by
accidentally drinking a super-plastic formula he believed was a soda
pop. Chuck is a member of the LEGION OF SUPER-HEROES. Bouncing Boy is
known for sharing a long-term romantic relationship with fellow
Legionnaire TRIPLICATE GIRL of the planet Cargg, whom he eventually
marries. In Reboot Legion continuity, CHUCK TAINE is the Legion's
mechanic. Bouncing Boy was created by Jerry Siegel and Jim Mooney and
first appeared in Action Comics #276. (1961)


Fictional Character Biography

Bouncing Boy (Chuck Taine) was born on Earth with no powers. He received
his ability to inflate when he accidentally drank a super plastic
formula which he thought was soda pop. He first appeared in Action
Comics #276 (May 1961).

He married fellow Legionnaire Duo Damsel in Superboy #200 and then
left active service as a Legionnaire to become a Legion reservist,
appearing only sporadically thereafter until Zero Hour. During his
period as a reservist, he and Duo Damsel were in charge of training
recruits to the Legion's Academy.

In the Post-Zero Hour continuity, Chuck was identified as Charles Foster
Taine and acted as the Legion's resident architect and engineer. He did
not possess bouncing powers in this continuity and was only an honorary
member of the Legion. As a maintenance man, he once built a specialty
vehicle called the "Bouncing Boy" which acted as a bouncing juggernaut,
smashing everything in its way.

The name Charles Foster Taine is a reference to the classic 1941 feature
film, Citizen Kane and its title character, Charles Foster Kane, though
in his initial appearance he is simply named Chuck Taine.

He has yet to appear in the "Threeboot" version of the Legion, which
began in 2004.

The Post-Infinite Crisis version of Bouncing Boy appeared in Final
Crisis: Legion of 3 Worlds. Missing in action during most of the
miniseries, he and his wife, now known as Duplicate Damsel, finally make
an appearance in the final issue to help end the battle against the
antagonists and then rejoin the Legion.


Powers

Bouncing Boy has the ability to expand his body to form a sphere, which
provides him with the ability to bounce off of surfaces. In his normal
form, Bouncing Boy is overweight, but when he "inflates," his mass and
height remain the same, while his overall dimensions increase to
resemble that of a human-sized ball. Whether his body actually
inflates—as in, takes in air—or his individual cells expand, decreasing
his overall density while increasing his overall dimensions, is not
explained. When he utilizes his power, his body becomes extremely
rubbery and elastic allowing him to bounce with great force. Originally
thought of as a useless power by his Legionnaire peers, he has
demonstrated many times that he can use his body's shape and rubber-like
consistency as an effective ballistic weapon. His "go-to" move is to use
surrounding walls to ricochet back and forth in order to bowl over his
opponents. Unlike an inanimate rubber ball, which will slowly lose its
kinetic force due to friction and gravity, Bouncing Boy uses his muscles
to maintain his velocity and power as he bounces about. His power also
provides him with a limited degree of invulnerability while bouncing. He
is also invulnerable to electric shock while in his spherical state.

Bouncing Boy lost his powers for a short period of time after he
accidentally bounced into a matter-shrinking facility. This caused him
to lose his ability to expand, which resulted in him having to step down
from the League of Superheroes. He later regained his powers after the
formula which originally gave him his powers was recreated for him. He
then re-joined the League of Superheroes.

Three years later, he lost his powers again for no apparent reason. He
resigned once more, and married Duo Damsel, who also lost her powers.


Equipment

As a member of the Legion of Super-Heroes, Bouncing Boy is provided a
Legion Flight Ring. It allows him to fly and protects him from the
vacuum of space and other dangerous environments.


In Other Media

Bouncing Boy appeared in the 2006 episode of Justice League Unlimited
"Far From Home," featuring the Legion of Super-Heroes. He was voiced by
Googy Gress.

Bouncing Boy is part of the core team in the Legion of Super-Heroes
animated series, where he is voiced by Michael Cornacchia. In the
series, Bouncing Boy is presented as an accepted member of the team, and
the main pilot of the Legion Cruiser. In the episode "Timber Wolf," he
and Brainiac Five quarrel over Bouncing Boy's piloting and engineering,
but in the end, Bouncing Boy proves his abilities to his teammate.

In the episode "Lightning Storm," Bouncing Boy is seen working with
potential Legion applicants, helping them prepare for the upcoming
Legion auditions. In the same episode, his quick thinking helps him in
the battle against the Lightspeed Vanguard. This leads into the
following episode, "Substitutes," in which Bouncing Boy gives
encouragement to the future Legion of Substitute Heroes, where it is
revealed that he himself tried out for the Legion four times before
being accepted. In the end, he ends up coining the fledgling group's
name.

Ultimately, in the episode "Chain of Command," Bouncing Boy's quick
thinking and observation allows him to form a plan that is crucial to
the Legion's effort to save the inhabitants of the planet Winath. At the
end of the episode, after Lightning Lad challenges Cosmic Boy for
leadership of the Legion and prompts an election, an upset occurs – with
the Legion instead electing Bouncing Boy to the position. After being
elected, Bouncing Boy receives a kiss from Triplicate Girl. In the end,
they are seen holding hands. He is seen taking an active leadership role
in the 2-part episode "Sundown."

In the second season, his new position as leader is for the most part
ignored, as Lightning Lad and Cosmic Boy are still arguing about it. No
canon explanation is given.


Parodies

An episode of The Fairly OddParents in which kids were turned into
superheroes featured "The Bouncing Boil." His many failed attempts at
stopping a Wolverine-based supervillain (since she would just hold out
her claws and deflate him) would commonly cause his teammates to state
"Man, that's a dumb power."

The story arc "The Innocents" from Garth Ennis' comic book series The
Boys features a controversial parody of Bouncing Boy called Bobby
Badoing who is constantly in an inflated state and is also mentally
impaired.

