HUGH HAZZARD AND HIS ROBOT, BOZO THE IRON MAN is a fictional
character, first appearing in Quality Comics series, Smash Comics #1
(Aug. 1939). The character's adventures were written and crudely drawn
by Quality Comics editor George Brenner.


Fictional character biography

In the first installment, the origin story, Hugh Hazzard is a suit and
fedora clad man with connections to a large city police department. He
is involved in the investigation of crimes committed by a mysterious
robot. Hugh manages to temporarily deactivate the robot, and climbs
inside its hollow chest to hitch a ride to the robot's home base, which
turns out to be the laboratory of an evil scientist, who dies in the
ensuing battle. The robot is again deactivated, and placed on a garbage
scow for disposal at sea, but Hugh Hazzard has ideas of using the robot
as a crime-fighting tool. He saves the robot from its watery fate, then
names the robot Bozo.

In the next installment, Hazzard is shown examining the robot's
blueprints, and stating that the robot can be modified to fly. The
modified robot, shown flying with a spinning propeller on its head, is
again used to foil a crime. Flying would be a part of all subsequent
appearances.

After the pattern of the first adventure, Hugh Hazzard tended to
encounter criminals committing crimes with scientific gadgetry, and
these criminals tended to become the victims of their own weapons.

In 1956, Quality Comics characters were sold to . Quality's
Blackhawk continued to be published without interruption, but most of
their other characters languished. While most of the classic Quality
superheroes saw print again many years later, Hugh Hazzard has not
returned. A robot resembling Bozo did make a single-panel appearance in
an issue of James Robinson's Starman, where the inactive robot was in
a store-room with a Japanese collector's horde of Golden Age superhero
artifacts.

In Robinson's Superman run, Bozo appears alongside other robots
including Mekanique, Robotman and various GI Robot models. The robots
are part of Sam Lane's Project 7734.


Influence

Justin Gray said that the character concept for the villain Gonzo the
Mechanical Bastard was derived from a character proposal by Grant
Morrison updating Bozo. The final Gonzo character eventually became
something very different: a psychotic android that can impersonate a
world leader.

