BRAINIAC 8 (also called INDIGO) is a fictional superheroine in the , who
is later revealed to be a supervillain. The character's first appearance
was in Titans/Young Justice: Graduation Day #1.


Fictional character biography

Indigo is a gynoid and a member of the Outsiders. Born in a distant
future era, she comes to the 21st century badly damaged, and desperately
looking for a cybernetic or mechanical organism capable of repairing
her. In the process, she tries to install her self-repairing routines
into the Metal Men, but they are incapable of assisting her in
maintenance. Then she turns to Cyborg, but in the process, she damages
him.

Attacked by the combined forces of Young Justice and the Titans, she
retreats, switching into an offensive mode. Although the combined forces
of the young superheroes best her, adding further damage, she is able to
activate a dormant Superman robot before shutting down for repairs. Yet
when the android comes after the young heroes (killing Lilith and
Troia), Red Arrow (then going by the name "Arsenal") briefly reactivates
the young female droid and sends her to stop the Superman Android before
shutting down again.

When Red Arrow (still calling himself Arsenal at the time) reforms the
Outsiders, he claims the female droid, now called Indigo, as a teammate.

Her memory was supposedly damaged in the aftermath of her dramatic
appearance; any remainder was wiped out by S.T.A.R. Labs. Indigo
displays a very naive personality, guilelessly taking pleasure in the
simple things in life, like doing laundry for friends, bowling, and
silent movies. She often struggles to learn how to behave in society,
and takes her cues from those she lives with. As she grows more
integrated in her quest to earn the acceptance and forgiveness of
Nightwing and her teammates, she even manages to find love with Shift.

It was revealed in Teen Titans (vol. 3) #24 that Indigo is actually
Brainiac 8, and every bit the ruthless, inhuman villain that previous
Brainiacs were. Indigo as the Outsiders knew her is essentially a
subprogram, designed by Brainiac 8's "grandfather", Brainiac 6, to
endear her to the superhero community.

Brainiac 8 had been sent back in time to kill Donna Troy, because a
living Donna would negate Coluan domination over the "organics" after
the Infinite Crisis events. After a beating by the combined forces of
Teen Titans and Outsiders, in Outsiders (vol. 3) #25, the Indigo
persona wrests control from Brainiac 8, and reveals herself to be a
genuine personality. Weeping, she begs Shift to kill her before the
Brainac 8 persona could harm the people she loves. Shift, in tears,
transforms her molecular structure into flesh, killing her in the
process.

The Origins and Omens back-up story in Titans #10 indicated that
Indigo might soon return, but writer Judd Winick left the book before
this plot thread could be followed up on.

Indigo eventually returns in Teen Titans (vol. 3) #98 as part of
Superboy-Prime's Legion of Doom. She now sports a cybernetic arm and
eye, the origins of which are unexplained. During Teen Titans (vol. 3)
#100, Indigo is once again destroyed after Red Robin and Robin
decapitate her.


Powers and abilities

A unique inorganic being, Indigo possesses an analytical computer mind,
can fly, and can project force fields and energy blasts from her eyes
and hands. She is also able to interact with and control machines and
robots.


Other characters with the name Indigo

-   Indigo was also the name of a character in DP7, one of the titles
    of ' short-lived New Universe imprint.
-   Indigo was another name used by the  superhero Deep Blue.
-   Indigo was also the name of a member of Sovereign Seven.
-   Indigo-1 was also the name of the leader of the Indigo Tribe in The
    Blackest Night crossover event in 2009. She and her tribe derived
    their power from compassion.


In other media

-   Indigo appears in Supergirl, portrayed by Laura Vandervoort (who
    portrayed Supergirl on the TV show Smallville). She debuts in
    the episode "Solitude". It is mentioned that she had previously used
    the names Brainiac-8 and is a Coluan. Indigo initially appears as a
    blonde human on video monitors, eventually crossing paths
    with Supergirl. Indigo hacks a secret military base as well as
    teaming up with Supergirl's uncle & nemesis Non. She reveals to
    Supergirl as she dies that she was the reason Fort Rozz and
    Supergirl escaped the Phantom Zone. Her plan is to destroy National
    City with a nuclear weapon, but she is killed by Winn Schott, Jr.
    when he downloads a virus into her but Non reanimates her. Indigo
    reappears in the episode "Myriad", now working with Non conducting
    Project Myriad. In the episode Better Angels, she and Non try to
    kill all of the people in National City using Myriad. Indigo is
    killed by the Martian Manhunter when he splits her body in half,
    telling both the Manhunter & Supergirl that Earth will die as she
    has locked the system to deactivate Myriad.

