BULLETEER is a fictional character and  superheroine, a member
of the Seven Soldiers. She debuted in Seven Soldiers: The Bulleteer #1
(November 2005), and was created by Grant Morrison and Yanick Paquette.
The character is based in part on the Fawcett Comics character
Bulletgirl.


Fictional character biography

27-year-old Alix Harrower is married to Lance, a research scientist who
has developed a thin metal skin that can bond with collagen, turning
tissue indestructibly hard. When this "smartskin" is applied to a living
being, such as Lance's initial test subject, a mouse named "Metal
Mickey", the subject becomes endowed with superhuman strength. Though
the potential military applications are obvious, Lance dreams of using
it on himself, modeling a superhero career after the WWII superheroes
Bulletman and Bulletgirl. Unfortunately, after testing it on himself, he
begins to suffocate. When he touches Alix, the smartskin bonds to her.
Rushed to the hospital, she is saved thanks to medics gaining access to
bare skin covered by her wedding ring. Lance was not wearing his, and
dies of asphyxiation.

Alix spirals into depression as her new appearance forces her to quit
her job teaching autistic children. Another emotional blow comes at the
discovery that her deceased husband's superhero dreams stemmed from a
fixation on superhero-based pornography and an online affair with "Super
Sally Sonic," an immortal superhuman porn star. Distraught, Alix
attempted suicide. While trying to find a structure hard enough to kill
her on impact, she comes across a train wreck, and saves the people
still inside. After those she saved call her a superhero, she decides to
live up to the title, taking the name Bulleteer.

In Bulleteer #2, it is revealed that Alix was going to be the seventh
member of Greg Saunders' ill-fated new Seven Soldiers of Victory, but
got cold feet and thus escaped the massacre. She meets Agent Helligan
from Shining Knight #3 and helps her interrogate Ramon Solomano, alias
"the Iron Hand" (an old enemy of Saunders from his days as the costumed
hero Vigilante), for information on the Nebula Man and the deaths of the
six other soldiers as seen in Seven Soldiers of Victory #0.

In Bulleteer #3, Alix works as a bodyguard to a mermaid movie star at
a convention for C-list superheroes, interacts with various secondary
Soldiers characters (including the original Bulletgirl), and eventually
survives an assassination attempt by the apparently undead Spyder. Alix
also learns more about Sally Sonic from a superhuman porn actress, and
discovers that Sally enjoys seducing husbands and breaking up couples.
Upon her return home, Alix is crushed with a refrigerator by the
indestructible Sally Sonic, who was posing as her boarder.

In Bulleteer #4, Sally Sonic beats Alix while ranting about her ruined
life. Flashbacks reveal Sally's backstory as a 1940s superheroine who is
immortal and stuck in the body of a superpowered teenager. After
outliving all of her friends and family and being forced to live in an
abusive orphanage (since no one believed her true age), Sally Smart met
"Vita-Man", a superhuman who manipulates her into a sexual relationship
and a role in a pornographic film. Sally is pulled into the seedy
underworld of superhuman sex work and drug abuse, and eventually goads
Alix' husband into the experiment that killed him and transformed Alix.
Her motivation for this act is revealed to be jealousy: Sally loathed
Alix for having the life Sally could never have. Alix refuses to let
Sally take her grief out on her and manages to knock Sally out with a
car engine, despite a broken arm. Afterwards, a ghostly Greg Saunders
approaches Alix and attempts to recruit her to 'save the world'. Though
she is not even sure that Saunders is real, she rejects him and the
entire superhero role.

In Seven Soldiers #1, Alix tries to drive Sally to the hospital when
the Sheeda launch the invasion on Manhattan. Sally wakes up and tries to
kill Alix yet again, until the car collides with the fallen Sheeda
queen, Gloriana Tenebrae, and bursts into flames. Alix survives, but
Sally and Gloriana do not.

It is revealed that Alix is THE SPEAR THAT WAS NEVER THROWN, the
ultimate downfall of the Sheeda race. This Spear is thrown by Aurakles,
the very first superhero from 42,000 years ago, and Alix' ancestor.
Aurakles appears as an imprisoned demi-god in the pages of Mister
Miracle.

Other appearances

Alix appears in Infinite Crisis #7 as one of the heroes fighting
against the rampaging villains in Metropolis and is later seen in the
two-page line up of the heroes of the U. She appears to be flying.

She appears in 52 #24, as a member of an interim JLA, also featuring
Firestorm, Firehawk, Super-Chief, and Ambush Bug. This goes badly, as
their first major villain, Skeets, kills Super-Chief and many innocent
civilians. She then reappeared in issue four of the World War III
event. That and her appearance in 52 issue #50 both involve her
efforts as part of a multi-hero, worldwide attempt to take down the
insane Black Adam.

She appeared in Birds of Prey #100 as one of Oracle's potential
recruits for the team. Despite this, she made no further appearances in
the series, indicating that she ultimately did not join the team.

She is later seen in Final Crisis #2 and #5, as part of a resistance
group of heroes battling Darkseid's invading forces. 

Alix appears in the final issue of Justice League: Cry for Justice,
where she and Mr. Scarlet rescue Freddy Freeman after he is tied up and
has his mouth sewn shut by Prometheus. When asked by Ray Palmer how she
was able to contact the JLA Watchtower, Alix explains that she kept the
communicator given to her by Firestorm during her brief tenure with his
League.

She later appears as part of Wonder Woman's all-female strikeforce when
a group of androids invade Washington D.C. After the robots are
defeated, Alix attempts to strike up a conversation with Wonder Woman,
and nervously tells her that she must not have any idea who she is.
Wonder Woman tells Alix that she does indeed know who she is, which
makes her day.

Bulleteer is later shown aiding the JLA during their mission into Hell,
where she helps Donna Troy defeat the demon Lilith. Following this,
Alix is recruited by Congorilla as part of an emergency Justice League
hastily assembled to repel Eclipso's invasion of the Emerald City on the
moon. Alongside her teammates, Alix is quickly defeated and brought
under Eclipso's mental control. The reserve JLA members are all freed
after Eclipso is defeated.


Powers and Abilities

Alix Harrower was originally a normal human with no superhuman
abilities. After bonding with "Smartskin" created by her husband, Alix's
body became coated in a virtually indestructible metal shell, though it
was implied that her bones and other organs remained mostly unaltered.
This metal coating originally granted Alex a degree of superhuman
strength and near invulnerability to harm, though an assassin attempted
to bypass this invulnerability by shooting her in the ear with a diamond
tipped arrow and her arm was broken by the super strong Sally Sonic. In
her appearances after Seven Soldiers, Alix also seems to have developed
the power of flight.

