BUNKER is a fictional gay comic book superhero of Mexican descent,
published by . He first appeared in Teen Titans vol. 4, #1
(November 2011), and was created by Scott Lobdell and Brett Booth.

Booth said on his blog:


Fictional character biography

Bunker first appeared as a member of the Teen Titans in Teen Titans
vol. 4, #1, as part of the  relaunch, The New 52.

Raised in the small Mexican village called 'El Chilar', Miguel Jose
Barragan had grown up in a loving and supportive community, and found
acceptance as an openly gay teenager. When Miguel manifested the
meta-human ability to create psionic energy constructs, the extroverted
idealist sought out Red Robin in an attempt to become a full-fledged
superhero.

Miguel – who adopts the code-name “Bunker” – then becomes a target of
N.O.W.H.E.R.E., a mysterious organization abducting super-powered youths
for their own nefarious purposes. Red Robin makes contact with Bunker,
and soon organizes a group of targeted teenagers into a meta-human
resistance force known as the 'Teen Titans'. Together, they are able to
liberate the living weapon known as Superboy and dismantle
N.O.W.H.E.R.E.’s secret complex in the Antarctic.

In July 2012, Lobdell announced that he was going to reveal Bunker's
boyfriend, "who will be heading to the US from Mexico after coming out
of a coma and learning that his boyfriend had run off to become a
superhero".

In issue #23, Bunker leaves the team for a short while. The Teen
Titans series then concluded, with #30 along with an annual in April
2014. It was then announced that the series would be relaunched in
July 2014 with a new issue 1, written by Will Pfeifer and art by Kenneth
Rocafort.

In the annual, during an epilogue, Bunker is shown being funded by the
Green Team to create the 'Spectacular Internationale'.


Powers and abilities

Bunker has the ability to create energy constructs with his mind, often
creating brick-like walls and pummeling fists. Using this as platforms,
he can levitate himself and others.

Arsenal in Red Hood and the Outlaws (Vol 1 #16) said "This Bunker
reminds me of me in a way. He acts like he doesn't take any of it too
seriously. But a wall like that doesn't come out of thin air. He's got
more going on than anyone gives him credit for. You watch-- he'll be in
the Justice League before he's twenty."


In other media

Bunker appears in  Super Hero Girls, as one of the background
students at Super Hero High.


Merchandising

In 2013, a HeroClix figure of Bunker was produced as part of the Teen
Titans set.

