BUSHIDO is a fictional character, a  superhero who was a
short-lived member of the Teen Titans. The character debuted in Titans
Annual #1 (2000).


Fictional character biography

RYUKU ORSONO is a Japanese teenager who becomes a bushidōka upon his
mother's death, which fulfills a long family line of honorary heroes. He
first encountered the Teen Titans in Titans Annual #1, when they come
to Japan in order to free their team member Beast Boy from the
possession of the demon Tengu. Bushido uses his mystical sword to sever
the head of Beast Boy; fortunately, the magical sword drives out Tengu
without harming Logan.

In Titans Secret Files #2, Bushido joins the short lived Titans L.A.
before its dissolution. During his tenure his teammates were Herald,
Bumblebee, Hero Cruz. Terra II, Flamebird, Captain  Jr. and Beast
Boy.

Bushido joins an improvised Titans group in battling the rampaging
Superboy-Prime. The battle ends up outside of Keystone City. After
Pantha and Baby Wildebeest are killed, Bushido attacks Prime and is
blasted in half by Prime's heat vision. This battle is also covered in
more detail in the Titans own series.

During the events of Blackest Night, Bushido is reanimated as a member
of the Black Lantern Corps along with the other heroes killed by
Superboy-Prime and head for Earth Prime to torment him. Superboy-Prime
destroys them by using the black ring cycling through the power set of
emotions resulting in a burst of colored energy that destroys Black
Lanterns.


Powers and abilities

Bushido is skilled in the martial arts, especially in swordsmanship. His
primary weapons are the naginata and the jitte, as well as the hachiwara
and the shuriken. Each weapon is imbued with the soul of the warrior who
wielded it, and these spirits guide Ryuko in battle.


In other media

Television

-   Bushido appears in Season 5 episode of the animated television
    series Teen Titans voiced by Dee Bradley Baker. He is portrayed as
    a silent young samurai. In "Calling All Titans," Bushido meets Robin
    during a fight with ninjas and becomes an honorary Titan. His only
    power appears to be his superior sword-fighting skills. Shortly
    after joining the Titans, Bushido is ambushed by Katarou. Although
    extremely skilled, he is unable to defeat Katarou and is
    flash-frozen with many other Titans. When Más frees Menos, they are
    able to unfreeze all of the Titans. Bushido then joins the fight and
    cuts Atlas' left leg off as well as kicking Katarou square in
    the face.

Miscellaneous

-   Bushido appears in comic book spinoff Teen Titans Go!_ in issue
    #34, where his origin is told.

