BUSHMASTER is a fictional superhero published by . He first
appeared in Super Friends #45 (June 1981), and was created by E.
Nelson Bridwell and Romeo Tanghal.


Fictional character biography

BERNAL ROJAS is an attention-seeking herpetologist who invented gadgets
that mimic the abilities of reptiles, past and present. He helps Batman
and Robin dismantle a bomb in Venezuela and hunt down a criminal. He
also becomes a founding member of the Global Guardians. Later, he is
seen in Paris, France, assisting his Guardian teammates against a horde
of Apellaxian aliens. Along with other Global Guardians, he is
brainwashed by the Queen Bee of Bialya.

While under the will of the Queen Bee, he and his team travel to the
French embassy of Justice League International. The Queen, in an attempt
to raise positive public perception for her brainwashed team, sends a
robot, created by a member of the Dominators to attack both teams.
During the battle, Bushmaster demonstrates the ability to blend like a
chameleon, use of a technological shield that can snap open in a moment
and the ability to construct large weaponry in seconds.

The entire team ends up escaping the influence of the Queen Bee, thanks
to the influence of rogue Justice League members.

The Hostage Situation

Bushmaster moves back to Venezuela. He is called in to help with a
hostage situation at a local bank. The criminals agree that he can
enter, unarmed, to negotiate. He enters with a snake and disturbs the
criminals with the idea the snake might be poisonous, which allows him
to defeat the criminals easily. Outside the bank, he is attacked by the
ancient entity Fain Y'onia. During the battle, he is temporarily blinded
by Fain and knocked back inside the bank. He lands near one of the
hostage-takers, who is being arrested by a plainclothes policeman. The
criminal grabs the officer's gun and shoots Bushmaster three times in
the chest, killing him.

Enraged, Fain sends a blast of energy at the criminal. It kills him and
three nearby police officers.

Fain would go on to confront the other Guardians, killing Thunderlord.
After his defeat, statues are erected to all the Guardians who have died
over the years. Bushmaster's has him holding out a snake. Someone
wearing Bushmaster's costume is seen fighting alongside the Ultramarine
Corps against brainwashed gorillas.

