CAPTAIN CARROT is a funny animal superhero published by . His
first appearance was in a special insert in The New Teen Titans #16
(cover-dated Feb. 1982). He was created by Roy Thomas and Scott Shaw.


Fictional character biography

Captain Carrot is depicted as a superhero who lived on the
other-dimensional world of Earth-C, an alternate Earth populated by
sentient animals, which was later redesignated Earth-26 in the new 
multiverse. At the beginning of the Captain Carrot series, he was
referred to as "Roger Rabbit"; later in the series, "Rodney Rabbit" was
usually used, to avoid legal issues involving the literary (and later
film) character Roger Rabbit. Rodney was officially stated to be his
middle name in the letters column.

In his alter ego, Rodney works for Earth-C's  as a writer and
artist, primarily on the comic Just'a Lotta Animals.

After their initial appearance in New Teen Titans #16, Captain Carrot
and his team appeared in 20 issues of their own series, Captain Carrot
and His Amazing Zoo Crew!_. The 20 issue run was written by Roy Thomas
and penciled by Scott Shaw! and Stan Goldberg with Al Gordon inking
issues, #s 6-14. According to the final issue of the series, the book
was cancelled in favor of placing the Zoo Crew in a number of
miniseries, but only one such miniseries, the three-issue Oz/Wonderland
War (in which the characters became involved in an interdimensional war
involving the worlds of L. Frank Baum and Lewis Carroll), was ever
published.

The imagery of Carrot and several of his allies are brought to life when
a confused thirteen-year-old boy receives near-limitless power in the
'Young Justice: World Without Grownups' storyline. 

The Captain and Crew returned in a miniseries titled Captain Carrot and
the Final Ark!_ (October–December 2007, written by Bill Morrison and
penciled by Scott Shaw! and inked by Al Gordon). The end of that series
shows their Earth to be rendered uninhabitable and the Captain has an
ocean liner loaded with refugees that is transported off the planet by
the Just'a Lotta Animals. The ship is then accidentally sent from
Earth-26 to New Earth. The Justice League encounters the ship and lands
it safely, though all the passengers, including the Captain and the Zoo
Crew, are transformed into non-anthropomorphic animals. The superheroine
magician, Zatanna, unaware of the animals' true nature, claims Rodney as
a pet for her magic act.

However, in the climatic battle in Final Crisis #7, Captain Carrot
participates, his anthropomorphic form and powers (along with those of
his Zoo Crew teammates) restored by the renegade Monitor Nix Uotan.

In Zatanna #4 (October 2010), it is revealed that during his time on
New Earth, Rodney fathered a child named Lucky with one of Zatanna's
rabbits, who is still in her keeping.

Captain Carrot later appeared as a major character in Grant Morrison's
The Multiversity. As one of many heroes throughout the multiverse
summoned to the "House of Heroes", he is part of the team that travels
to Earth 8 in search of the missing Monitor, Nix Uotan. In the finale
of the story, he participates in the final battle against the Gentry,
the villains of the series. He then becomes a founding member of
"Operation Justice Incarnate", a team of heroes from throughout the 
Multiverse who will assemble to face any high level threats to the
various universes.

The Zoo Crew also exists in the post-Crisis  Universe as popular
cartoon characters. In her own series, Wonder Woman passes by Captain
Carrot's action figure in a Tokyo toy shop. 


Powers and abilities

-   Upon eating a "cosmic carrot," Rodney is imbued with various
    superpowers, including limited invulnerability, superhuman strength,
    enhanced speed, stamina, hearing and vision, and the ability to make
    gigantic, powerful leaps.
-   Rodney's powers are the only ones out of the Zoo Crew that are not
    permanent; after 24 hours or a period of extreme exertion, Captain
    Carrot's powers wear off, and Rodney reverts to being normal again.
    As such Rodney keeps a window-box full of carrots, plus his chunk of
    the meteorite, to ensure a continuous supply of carrots and keeps
    two holstered on his costume for recharges when necessary.

