CAPTAIN TRIUMPH is a superhero from the Golden Age of Comics who first
appeared in Crack Comics #27, published in January 1943 by Quality
Comics. The character was later obtained by , though by that
time he had already lapsed into the public domain. Some of his Golden
Age adventures were reprinted by AC Comics in the Men of Mystery
anthology. He is not to be confused with another  property,
Triumph.


Origin

[200 px|right|thumb|Lance Gallant meets his dead brother Michael. Crack
Comics #27. Art by Alfred Andriola.]

In 1919 twin brothers Michael and Lance Gallant are born in New York
City. They are so alike, even down to a T-shaped birthmark on their left
wrists, that their own mother cannot tell them apart. The two remain
close, even for twins, as they grow up.

When America is drawn into the Second World War, Michael enlists in the
U.S. Army Air Corps, becoming a pilot, while Lance “crusaded with his
own weapons – the word and pen” by becoming a journalist. However, on
Michael’s 23rd birthday, as he brings his plane in to land, the hangar
he is entering explodes. His fiancée, Kim Meredith, and brother Lance
witness this act of sabotage, and the latter races into the burning
structure, managing to find his badly injured sibling, only for Michael
to die in his arms.

Lance swears vengeance on the murderers and those like them. Unknown to
him, the Fates, creatures of myth, are watching all this and, impressed,
decide to create a champion. Soon afterwards Lance receives a shocking
visitation from Michael's ghost, who reveals that they remain linked
together, and if Lance touches his birthmark they will merge, gaining
superpowers as a result. Touching the mark a second time will separate
them again. Calling himself Captain Triumph, Lance becomes a
crimefighter.


Creative teams

Cap's writer is unknown, but as the series opens, the artist is Alfred
Andriola, former assistant to Milton Caniff on Terry and the Pirates.
(Andriola had also drawn a newspaper comic based on author Earl Derr
Biggers's famous character, Charlie Chan.) He stays with Captain Triumph
a mere six months, leaving to create the character he's best
remembered for, Kerry Drake. The artists in the middle issues of Captain
Triumph’s '' Crack Comics'' run are mostly a matter of conjecture, as
Golden Age artists frequently did not sign their work. However,
beginning in Crack Comics #46 and ending only with the book’s
cancellation, Captain Triumph’s adventures are penciled and inked for an
unbroken 17-issue run by Golden Age great Reed Crandall.


Costume

[200 px|left|thumb|The cover to Crack Comics #54, one of only four
times the character was shown with light blue jodhpurs. Art by Reed
Crandall.]

Captain Triumph has a minimal costume consisting of a plain, red,
short-sleeved, crew neck T-shirt, ordinary white jodhpurs, a brown belt,
brown riding boots, and no mask. Comic book historian Don Markstein has
commented, “By the time Cap appeared in 1943, the tide of superhero
comic book characters was receding somewhat. Captain Triumph's costume
was just enough to get across the idea he was a superhero, but since the
genre was fading did not emphasize the fact.”

Captain Triumph belongs to that select class of superheroes who, like
Superman/Clark Kent, is never recognized in his superhero identity, even
when being seen, by the same person, as Captain Triumph immediately
after being seen as Lance Gallant and vice versa – despite the fact that
he wears no mask and does not even have Clark Kent’s glasses to disguise
his face.


Supporting cast

Kim Meredith is introduced in Captain Triumph’s first appearance as
Michael Gallant’s fiancée. In his second appearance, both Michael’s
ghost and Lance jointly tell her the secret of Captain Triumph. An
extremely strong-willed young woman, thereafter she is Cap’s devoted and
trustworthy helper and confidante. In one adventure, after being
kidnapped, she refuses to give her captor any information on Captain
Triumph even though she is beaten “…until [her] face is covered with
blood and welts and open wounds.” Eventually she becomes Lance’s
fiancée, as well.”

[200 px|right|thumb|Captain Triumph with his partners in adventure, Kim
Meredith and Biff (and another appearance of the light blue jodhpurs).
Crack Comics #49. Art by Reed Crandall.]

In his fourth appearance, Captain Triumph encounters a down-on-his-luck
professional clown named Biff who is on the verge of being fired from
his job. Sympathizing, Cap uses his powers of flight and invisibility to
ensure that Biff’s next show is spectacular. However, even though in the
aftermath his job as a clown is at least temporarily assured, after
being drawn into one of Cap’s adventures, and thoroughly enjoying it,
Biff readily accepts Lance Gallant’s offer to become his personal
assistant. (Though Lance Gallant is presented as being born into “a
middle-class family” and at the time supposedly has as income only
his journalist’s pay, he has no problem affording a personal, live-in
assistant.) Thereafter the burly former clown serves as Lance, Michael
and Captain Triumph’s steadfast friend and backup muscle.

Eventually Lance, Kim and Biff wind up co-owners in a successful gold
mine, and Biff buys shares in a “record-breaking” oil well, but
though this makes them all independently wealthy they continue to stay,
and adventure, together.


Personality

Before Michael’s death, and his merging with Lance to become Captain
Triumph, the two are extraordinarily close, and alike, even for twins.
“As they grew, the bonds of love and companionship that existed between
them became stronger than any bond of steel or cable of strength that
man could manufacture. So close were they, that in their work, their
play, and the exciting adventures that filled their lives, their bodies
responded but to one mind.”

Both twins are intelligent, daring, and athletic. Though they are
presented as being very similar, throughout the series it becomes
obvious that Lance is the more thoughtful, and intellectually inclined
of the two, while Michael is more the daredevil, witness their
differing vocations of journalist and military pilot, respectively.

When the twins merge into Captain Triumph, they form a composite
personality, with neither obviously dominant, and when they split apart
again they are both aware of everything that has occurred to them as
Captain Triumph.


Powers

[200 px|left|thumb|The Fates discuss the state of the world, and their
newly created champion, Captain Triumph. Crack Comics #28. Art by
Alfred Andriola.]

When Lance Gallant merges with the ghost of his brother Michael, the two
form Captain Triumph.

Within the context of this series, the Fates are presented as three
hag-like crones, sisters named Chance, Destiny and Fortune. They
give Captain Triumph three “ghostly” powers: flight, invisibility and
near invulnerability. As Michael Gallant says when his spirit first
appears to his brother, “I can make you invisible! You shall fly through
space within seconds! Nothing physical will harm you!”

When the brothers are separated into two individuals, Michael, as a
ghost, can move through walls, spy invisibly and then report back to
Lance. On the initial occasion, when Michael reveals his existence to
Kim she is able to see and hear him. Thereafter, though Lance can
always definitely see and hear Michael, whether Kim or Biff can do so is
inconsistently presented throughout the series - and sometimes within
the same story.

With intense concentration, Michael is able to communicate with, and
influence the actions of, other people and creatures. When the Jacksons
are threatened, Michael is able to influence April, the daughter of the
family, that she should write to Lance Gallant for help. In “The
Castle of Shadows!”, he controls a rat to gnaw through ropes binding
Kim and he compels a criminal to not search the hiding place of an
important document.

Captain Triumph also possesses the ability to alter his physical
appearance, shape and size, and at the same time change his voice, a
power that comes in very handy when his adventures require
impersonation.

[200 px|right|thumb|One of the powers given to Captain Triumph by the
Fates is the ability to fly. Crack Comics #47. Art by Reed Crandall.]

Captain Triumph also has limited super-strength. He can stop a racing
car by either grabbing its bumper or standing in front of it and
punching it, bend rifle barrels, break chains and snap rifle
bayonets with his bare hands. He can also punch through a brick
wall, steel bank vault doors and jail bars, and routinely
holds his own in physical confrontations against multiple, normal human
attackers much larger than he is. However, his opponents are never
seriously injured, and sometimes not even disabled, by his full-power
enthusiastic blows.

Captain Triumph is almost but not completely invulnerable. On numerous
occasions he is shot repeatedly, and the bullets have no effect.
Attempts to kill him with knives or swords see them bend or break on
his body. Hitting him with an axe results in the axe handle
breaking. He survives a pointblank bazooka blast with no damage.
Being shot with an atomic beam that can cut through anything (and does
in fact easily cut an oceangoing freighter completely in two) only
causes him to laugh and say, “I’m ticklish!” When faced with a
powerful “explosive pill” about to go off and wreck a defense factory,
his solution to the problem is to simply swallow the pill. However,
being exposed to the sonic vibrations of a “screaming bomb” that kills
normal people does render him temporarily unconscious.


Publication history

Crack Comics

Crack Comics started out as a monthly title, like most 1940s anthology
comic books, but dropped down to bi-monthly shortly after World War II
began, due to wartime paper shortages. It switched to quarterly about a
year after Captain Triumph joined the lineup. When the war was over,
most surviving anthologies ramped back up to monthly, but Crack Comics
only ever got back to bi-monthly (coming out in odd-numbered months).
But it did outlast most of the others, succumbing with its 62nd issue,
dated September 1949.

Captain Triumph's only appearances during the Golden Age were within 36
issues of Crack Comics, from his introduction in #27 until the book's
cancellation with #62. However he was the lead feature within, and
appeared on the cover of, every one of those issues.

The End of Quality Comics

By the mid-1950s, with television and paperback books drawing readers
away from comic books in general and superheroes in particular, interest
in Quality's characters had declined considerably. After a foray into
other genres such as war, humor, romance and horror, the company ceased
operations with comics cover dated December 1956. Many of its properties
were sold to National Periodical Publications (now ) which
chose to keep only a few titles running, such as Blackhawk and G.I.
Combat. Though it owned the rights to Captain Triumph,  would not use
the character for several more decades.

The All-Star Squadron

[200 px|right|thumb|The cover to All-Star Squadron vol. 1, #1 shows
Captain Triumph among the photos of potential members, though he was
never actually used in the book. Art by Rich Buckler and Dick Giordano.]
Captain Triumph appears on the cover of the first issue of All-Star
Squadron as one of a group of photos spread over a table, along with the
tag line "Who Will Be the Heroes of the....All-Star Squadron" although
he does not actually appear within the issue - or anywhere else in the
series, for that matter. Writer Roy Thomas indicates he always
intended to use Captain Triumph in All-Star Squadron but never got
around to it before the title was cancelled.

Animal Man

Captain Triumph appears in flashback in a small cameo in one issue of
Grant Morrison's Animal Man series, fighting the unsuccessful
supervillain The Red Mask who describes him as possessing "the
personality of a deck chair." Given his characterization in this story -
admittedly from The Red Mask's not exactly unbiased viewpoint - that is
not an entirely inaccurate assessment.

The Titans

Captain Triumph retires from action at an unknown time. Lance later
appears in The Titans as a friend of Jesse Quick's mother, the aged
heroine Liberty Belle. Michael is still present as a spirit but has
apparently gone psychotic in the many years of inactivity. The twins
discover a love affair between Jesse and her mother's young fiancé.
Lance tries to confront the fiancé on the matter but is taken over by
Michael’s ghost, who as Captain Triumph quickly murders the man for his
infidelity to his friend.

Jim Shelley on Flashback Universe refers to this tale of an insane,
murdering Captain Triumph as “his last appearance…probably best
forgotten.”

Female version

A new, female Captain Triumph debuts in Uncle Sam and the Freedom
Fighters. This version only demonstrates super-strength and the ability
to fly.

Next Issue Project

In November 2011, Captain Triumph appears, as part of Image Comics' Next
Issue Project, in Crack Comics #63, written and penciled by Alan
Weiss.


Other version(s)

The Golden Age

Captain Triumph's most substantive post-Golden Age appearance is in The
Golden Age, a four-issue prestige format miniseries in 
Elseworlds line, written by James Robinson with art by Paul Smith. In
it, Lance Gallant has retired as Captain Triumph and is trying to lead a
normal life, despite his brother's ghost urging him to become a hero
again. When he meets the reformed supervillain, the Tigress, he
falls in love with her. In the end he refuses to listen to his brother's
pleas and dies fighting the original Golden Age Robotman as a normal
man, defending the Tigress.

James Robinson intended that The Golden Age be canon, and his
subsequent series Starman assumed that many of the events in The
Golden Age (for instance Ted Knight, the original Starman, having a
nervous breakdown after his research was used to help create the atom
bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki) actually happened. However The
Golden Age has always been classed as a non-canonical "imaginary story"
by 's powers-that-be.

