CAPTAIN COMET (real name ADAM BLAKE) is a  superhero created by
 Editor Julius Schwartz, writer John Broome, and artist Carmine
Infantino.

Once a minor character in the  canon, he occupies an almost
unique position in  history as a superhero who was created
between the two great superhero comics periods--the Golden Age and the
Silver Age. His early stories fall into a no-man's land, sometimes
referred to as 'The Atomic Age' because of the recurrent science-fiction
themes of most comics of the period, when very few superheroes comics
were published and less than a dozen short-lived, superhero characters
were introduced.

Along with ' Namor the Sub-Mariner and Toro (sidekick of
the original Human Torch), he is among the first mutant metahuman
superheroes (meaning he was born with his powers), predating X-Men by 12
years. He is one of the few  characters not to have had their
earlier history significantly changed by various  major
continuity changing events over the years such as Crisis on Infinite
Earths and Zero Hour.


Publication history

The character of Captain Comet first appeared in a 10-page tale, "The
Origin Of Captain Comet", in the flagship science-fiction title Strange
Adventures #9 (June 1951) published by National Comics (now known as 
Comics). He was created by Strange Adventures editor Julius
Schwartz, John Broome, and artist Carmine Infantino, and the story
was written by John Broome (under the alias Edgar Ray Merritt), drawn by
Carmine Infantino and inked by Bernard Sachs. The character was based on
the pulp fiction character Captain Future. His first appearance
was actually a two-part story, continued in "The Air Bandits From Space"
in Strange Adventures #10 (July 1951). From issue #12 (September 1951)
Murphy Anderson took over as artist, and he drew all Captain Comet's
further appearances in Strange Adventures until #46 (July 1954); Sy
Barry and Gil Kane drew the last two stories. John Broome wrote every
issue.

Captain Comet appeared in 38 issues of Strange Adventures, (missing
only issues #45, #47, and #48); the series ending in Strange
Adventures #49 (October, 1954). From the beginning, Captain Comet
appeared on most of the covers, mainly drawn by Murphy Anderson or Gil
Kane. Stories ranged in length from six to ten pages, dropping from ten
pages in 1951 to eight pages in 1952 and finally six pages from May
1953. He next appeared in 1976, when writer Gerry Conway and co-writer
David Anthony Kraft reintroduced him as a supporting character in
Secret Society of Super Villains starting with "No Man Shall Call Me
Master" (Secret Society of Super Villains #2, July/August 1976). He
appeared in most issues of that title, together with associated Secret
Society of Super Villains Special #1 (October 1977), until it was
canceled with issue #15 (June/July 1978). During this run he also
appeared in Super-Team Family Giant #13 (September 1977), a story
directly linked to the Secret Society of Super Villains series, and as
lead character for the first time since 1954 in an extended story,
"Danger: Dinosaurs at Large!" in  Special #27, April/May 1977, by
Gerry Conway and artist Arvell Jones. Secret Society of Super Villains
was canceled as part of the  Implosion. Captain Comet was a popular
character at the time - he came second in a poll for potential Justice
League membership, and writer Bob Rozakis presented  with a
proposal for Captain Comet's first self-titled series.

After the cancellation of Secret Society of Super Villains, Captain
Comet entered another hiatus, his appearances limited to guest spots in
other  titles during the 1980s. Four of these were cameo appearances -
Crisis on Infinite Earths #5 (August 1985), #10 (January 1986) and #12
(March 1986), and All-Star Squadron #53 (January 1986). Two were
team-ups with Superman -  Presents #22 (June 1980) and #91
(March 1986); the fourth was a retelling of his origin by Roy Thomas in
Secret Origins Annual vol 2 #1 (1987). He also appeared in the
non-canonical series  Challenge (1986).

He then became a supporting character in the L.E.G.I.O.N._ series from
issue #16 (June 1990). Captain Comet was actually a late replacement for
fellow 1950s space traveler Adam Strange who was due to become a regular
character, as otherwise it would have clashed with the Adam Strange
Prestige Format limited series published around the same time. He was
then part of the R.E.B.E.L.S._ series which continued from
L.E.G.I.O.N._ That series was canceled with R.E.B.E.L.S.96 #17 (March
1996), and had a solo story in Showcase '96 #10 (November 1996), after
which another hiatus followed.

Since 2005, under the writer Jim Starlin, Captain Comet has had his
highest profile in  publications since the 1950s, featuring in
the Rann-Thanagar War miniseries (2005), starring in the 8-issue
miniseries Mystery in Space (vol 2)_ (2006), and co-starring in
Rann-Thanagar Holy War (2008) and Strange Adventures (vol 3)(2009),
as well as appearing briefly in the 52 (2006) and Final Crisis
(2008) events. Most recently he has become a regular character in the
ongoing new R.E.B.E.L.S._ series (2009).


Fictional character biography

[Strange Adventures #9
Art by Carmine Infantino.]

1950s - Strange Adventures

Captain Comet, the "first man of the future", is a mutant metahuman
"born a hundred thousand years before his time", in 1931 to a farming
couple from the American Mid-West. His "metagene" was triggered by a
comet passing overhead at birth.

Adam Blake discovered his unique abilities as he grew up - at the age of
four he instantly found a ring his mother had lost ("I just knew it was
there"), and by eight years old demonstrated photographic memory by
rapidly reading a whole encyclopedia and retaining the information.
Other skills manifested almost instantly: he could play musical
instruments without training and was secretly expert at sports to
Olympic record level. In high school he saved a schoolmate from falling
to her death by mental force, but despite his powers he felt isolated
from other humans because of his differences from them. After leaving
school he became a librarian in Midwest City, where he sought the help
of a renowned physicist, Professor Emery Zackro, who tested him and
discovered Adam was a mutant - postulating he was the reverse of an
evolutionary throwback, "an accidental specimen of future man". His
Captain Comet persona began when Adam used his powers to intervene when
criminals attempted to steal an advanced scientific device invented by
Professor Zackro. Immediately after this, Blake and the Professor agreed
Blake should become a superhero on a full-time basis, and he made his
first appearance in public as Captain Comet combating giant,
terraforming robot tops belonging to an alien race looking for a world
to colonize. During this task, Adam built a working version of a
prototype spaceship Professor Zackro had designed, which would become
his personal spaceship, The Cometeer, and took up a costume, spacesuit
and stun gun also invented by the Professor.

Over the next three years he saved Earth from multiple alien invasions
and explored space in The Cometeer, saving other civilizations and
meeting beautiful alien damsels in distress. During this period he
largely used intelligence and his mind-reading skills to help solve
problems, seldom resorting to physical solutions. Among his weirder
adventures, Captain Comet battled mad Greek Gods from space, fought
dinosaurs and alien creatures, and came up against an evil super-powered
ape several times. Sometime after 1954 he disappeared into space
in The Cometeer on another expedition of discovery, but this time he
would not return for over 20 years.

1970s - 1980s

In 1976 Captain Comet returned to Earth, having not aged, with a new
protective costume instead of a spacesuit, and enhanced skills -
controlling his appearance mentally (although dressing in 1950s style) -
and with a powerful physical punch as well as a mental force,
super-speed, and an ability to manipulate objects. He also had an
explanation for his absence - having always felt alienated from normal
humans because of his abilities: "For 20 years he spanned the spaceways,
searching for himself." "He’s been across the galaxy – twice." After
misreading a battle between Green Lantern and Gorilla Grodd, and some
trickery by Grodd, he ended up joining the Secret Society of Super
Villains and battled Darkseid and the forces of Apokolips with them.
Later he turned down full membership in the Justice League, but became
an honorary member and took up residence in their satellite
headquarters. After fighting Chronos and dinosaurs in Gotham
City, the Captain continued his crusade against the Secret Society
of Super Villains despite a number of setbacks orchestrated by Gorilla
Grodd.

Although present at the marriage of Ray 'The Atom' Palmer and Jean
Loring several months later, Captain Comet remained off-radar for
nearly two years, eventually contacting Superman when the effect of the
comet that mutated him wore off, turning him into a human comet whose
powers fluctuated wildly. With Superman's help he tracked down the
comet and stabilized his powers. Superman's help was needed again six
years later when the villain Brain Storm attempted to augment his waning
powers by stealing Captain Comet's power, which accidentally evolved him
to a more advanced form temporarily.

1990s - L.E.G.I.O.N._ / R.E.B.E.L.S._

He spent the next few years "roaming the stars... just drifting",
before being captured by the space outlaw Dagon-Ra despite his new
powers including near invulnerability, telekinesis and increased
strength. Rescued by L.E.G.I.O.N., he recuperated in their headquarters
hospital and was invited to join them soon after, and did so a year
later.

His involvement with L.E.G.I.O.N. was in a supporting role. He fell in
love with fellow member scientist Marij'n Bek, who nursed him back to
health and studied the massive headaches he frequently suffered. These
were the result of his possession by a psi-creature in space before
meeting L.E.G.I.O.N.; it was eventually purged by Vril Dox, leaving the
Captain once again hospitalised for months. Soon after he was
apparently killed by Lady Quark - who had been possessed by the same
parasite. Buried under a mountain on Ith'kaa, he eventually dug
himself out and used his knowledge to manipulate the savage
indigenous population to achieve the technological level to build him a
spaceship (explaining later, without irony, that it took six months to
industrialize the tribal society because "they were slow learners").
Returning to R.E.B.E.L.S. homeworld of Cairn, he learned that Vril Dox's
son Lyrl had brainwashed most of the L.E.G.I.O.N., made the key
L.E.G.I.O.N. members fugitives, and taken control of Cairn; he and
Maryj'n formed a resistance movement to free the population and
overthrow Lyrl, and were key in successfully defeating him. As a result,
Captain Comet became leader of the new, reformed L.E.G.I.O.N.

During this period, Captain Comet took up residence (with Tyrone, an
artificially created telepathic clone bulldog) in The Zelazny Building
on "Harore Station", a corrupt commercial satellite station with a
population of several million in a free space zone between a number of
trading civilisations.

Post 1990s

Rann-Thanagar War

At some undefined point in the next ten years Captain Comet stepped down
as leader and became a paid freelance aide and agent to Vril Dox, who
took back the L.E.G.I.O.N. reins. He was next seen with Dox under
contract to the planet Ancar, which had been invaded by Khunds during
the Rann-Thanagar War; after intervention by Green Lantern Kyle Rayner,
he decided to stay and help him end the war. He first accompanied
Kyle to the destroyed planet Thanagar, where they built a protective
dome and terraformed the land to create a secure environment for the
survivors. Then he joined up with Adam Strange and Hawkman to defend
Rann against the Thanagarians under the control of the demon Onimar
Synn, who he was instrumental in destroying.

52 and Mystery in Space

A year after the events of Infinite Crisis, Captain Comet was captured
and tortured by Lady Styx, forcing him to jettison his primary
consciousness from his body before death. His psychic self merged
briefly with that of The Weird, which had been drifting in space since
his death, and both were revived in new bodies. Captain Comet's
new body re-formed at Harore Station - with golden eyes, a
20-year-old's physique, and the ability to teleport, although he had
lost some strength. Shortening his name to Comet and fostering the
misconception that he was his own nephew, he searched for the remains of
his old body on Harore Station, discovering that it had been stolen by
the Eternal Light Corporation Church and he was being hunted by a team
of their telepathic assassins. On breaking into the Eternal Light
Corporation's building, he uncovered that brainwashed cloned telepaths
were being grown from the charred remains of his corpse, which he
destroyed. Becoming a fugitive, he hid from the E.L.C. so they could not
use his new body to continue their cloning - allowing thousands of
Harore residents to die when the E.L.C. cut off life support to a
whole area of Harore Station to force them to surrender Comet.
Eventually he destroyed all the clones and the E.L.C - also killing
hundreds of their followers.

Rann-Thanagar Holy War and Strange Adventures (vol 3)

Target of an assassination attempt by a surviving E.L.C. follower during
a resurgence of the faith, Comet accepted an offer by Adam Strange to
leave Harore Station and help quell growing religious fanaticism on
Rann. He ended up working with Adam Strange, Hawkman, Starfire, The
Weird, and the Prince Gavyn Starman against the influences of the
warring Lord Synnar (a cosmic tyrant behind the Eternal Light
Corporation) and Lady Styx on Rann and Thanagar (which once again set
the two planets on course for war). Their interference was eventually
key in Lord Synnar's plans to reach a higher plane of existence.

Later, Comet learned from the future spirit of Synnar that he is
destined to be one of "The Aberrant Six": a group critical to preventing
Synnar (trapped in The Weird's body) from destroying the universe.
Ultimately the Aberrant Six did not form, and the future Synnar was
forced to leave after Comet's mercenary friend Eye was killed by
Synnar's supreme god-enemy. Comet was entrusted with Eye's robot
companion, Orb, until Synnar returns to "continue his negotiations".
Comet then returned to Harore Station, and almost immediately
joined Vril Dox's new R.E.B.E.L.S.

The New 52

At the end of issue 12 of Action Comics during The New 52, Captain
Comet was revealed as the first Neo Sapiens, enlisted by the Oort-Kind
to find others similarly evolved, including Lois Lane's niece, Suzie.

Simply named "Comet", the character is reintroduced in Supergirl Issue
#36 as a prominent member of the CRUCIBLE ACADEMY.


Other versions

Captain Comet has also appeared in a number of  titles which do
not fit into normal continuity:

-    Challenge (November 1985 - October 1986);
-   Kingdom Come (1996), an acclaimed Elseworlds miniseries in which
    Captain Comet was a member of Superman's reformed Justice League. He
    was chosen by Superman to be warden of the Gulag, the holding
    facility/prison for metahumans who chose to defy the Justice League
    and was killed in a prison riot.
-   The Golden Age (1991), an Elseworlds miniseries where Captain
    Comet made a brief appearance in the final issue. This took place in
    1951, the first year of his crime fighting career.
-   In the  Tangent "Earth-9" universe, Captain Comet was an
    African-American superhero from that reality's Chicago who was
    killed in Czechoslovakia trying to prevent a war in Europe. He was
    resurrected, and sought revenge for the bombing of a US Army base.
-   He also made a brief appearance in the Elseworlds tale JLA: Another
    Nail (2004), when all time periods melded together.
-   An older version of Captain Comet fights against the tyranny of Vril
    Dox in the Armageddon 2001 crossover. He loses his then-wife in
    the battle, Marijin, and is slain himself.


Powers and abilities

[Captain Comet in
Rann-Thanagar War #5 (2005). Art by Ivan Reis.] Captain Comet is
supposedly the pinnacle of human evolution. His mutant mental functions
not only give him genius level I.Q. but endow him with a photographic
memory and telepathy, enabling him to read or control people's minds
(including alien races). He has telekinetic powers, which enable him to
use his thoughts to move, lift, and alter matter without physical
contact, mentally lift himself to fly at high-speed, create barriers of
psychic force to deflect physical attack, and fire bursts of psionic
energy that strike with concussive impact, sometimes in the form of
lightning or fire blasts. His telekinetic shield can simultaneously
protect him from the vacuum of space and surround him with a breathable
environment.

Captain Comet's brain also contains evolved sensory centers enabling him
to clairvoyantly "see" events outside of his range of sight. His evolved
physiology originally made him superhumanly strong and durable, enough
to lift a large spaceship and fight toe to toe with beings such as Lobo.
After his resurrection, however, his physical power was significantly
diminished, although his mental and psionic abilities have been
enhanced. He has also acquired a teleportation ability that can be used
on others as well as himself, but normally requires an hour to recharge
after every "jump".


In other media

Television

-   Captain Comet appears in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold
    episode "The Siege of Starro" Pt. 1. He is seen with the Green
    Lantern Corps fighting the Starro-controlled heroes and succumbs to
    Starro's control.


Reprints

-   Several stories from the 1950s Strange Adventures series were
    reprinted in Mysteries in Space: The Best of  Science Fiction
    Comics ed. Uslan, Michael (Fireside Books/Simon and Schuster 1980)
    ISBN 0-671-24775-1
-   The  Presents story in issue #22 (June 1980) was
    reprinted in Showcase Presents:  Presents Superman
    Team-Ups vol. 1, (Paperback) 512 pages (, 2009) ISBN
    1-4012-2535-7
-   The 2006 Mysteries in Space series has been reprinted in two
    volumes:
    -   Mystery in Space with Captain Comet: Volume One (Paperback),
        208 pages (, 2007) ISBN 1-4012-1558-0
    -   Mystery in Space with Captain Comet: Volume Two (Paperback),
        288 pages (, 2008) ISBN 1-4012-1692-7
-   The Rann-Thanagar Holy War series has been reprinted in
    two volumes.
-   The Strange Adventures (vol 3) series has been reprinted.


Notes

-   The  Encyclopaedia - Dougall, Alastair (Dorling Kindersley,
    2004, 2008) ISBN 0-7566-4119-5

