The CHAMPIONS OF ANGOR (also known as the JUSTIFIERS, the ASSEMBLERS and
the META MILITIA) are a fictional superhero team in the 
universe. They are a pastiche of the Avengers from the 
universe. They were created by Mike Friedrich and Dick Dillin in the
pages of Justice League of America #87 February (1971).


Origins

The team was introduced in Justice League of America #87 (Feb 1971),
written by Mike Friedrich and published at the same time as his friend
Roy Thomas was introducing the Justice League pastiche Squadron Supreme
in Avengers. They came from the alien planet of Angor. When Angor was
attacked by a spacefaring robot, they defeated it, and tracked it back
to its home planet. At the same time, the JLA was tracking a robot which
attacked Earth. The two teams both assumed the other was the enemy, and
fought.

The Champions of Angor in this story were:

-   WANDJINA - The team leader. Named after an Australian weather
    spirit, he has super-strength and weather control powers. Pastiche
    of Thor.
-   SILVER SORCERESS (civilian identity later revealed as Laura
    Cynthia Neilsen) - A powerful, but unpredictable, magic user, with a
    costume incorporating a curious headdress. Pastiche of the Scarlet
    Witch.
-   BLUE JAY (civilian identity later revealed as Jay Abrams) -Hero with
    the ability to shrink in size, and fly. Pastiche of Yellowjacket.
-   JACK B. QUICK (civilian identity later revealed as Harry Christos;
    later takes the name Captain Speed) - Speedster, with brief
    flight abilities. Pastiche of Quicksilver.


Current status

The team later appeared in Keith Giffen's post-Crisis Justice League
International. In #2 Wandjina, Blue Jay and the Sorceress came to Earth
in order to destroy all nuclear weapons. Apparently they are the only
survivors of a nuclear disaster that wiped out Angor. Wandjina
sacrifices himself to prevent a meltdown in a Bialyan reactor, and the
others give themselves up to the Russian authorities. Wandjina's corpse
would later be reanimated as a weapon by Queen Bee of Bialya. The
citizens didn't quite understand the fate of Wandjina and came to revere
him as a hero. 

Justice League Europe #15 (June 1990) began a story in which the
Sorceress and Blue Jay escaped from prison. Blue Jay went to the League
for help, while the Sorceress returned to Angor.

A flashback revealed that the nuclear disaster was caused by a group of
villains called the Extremists. The Extremists captured the Sorceress
and made her take them to Earth, where they again attempted to seize
control of the world's nuclear weapons. It was eventually revealed that
(with one exception) these were robot duplicates of the Extremists,
created for an amusement park. The owner of the amusement park was sent
to Earth and switched them off. The remaining villain, Dreamslayer, was
defeated by the Sorceress. Blue Jay and the Silver Sorceress joined the
Justice League Europe.

[Justice League Quarterly #3, Mike McKone (1991)]

Justice League Quarterly #3 (1990) featured Mitch Wacky (the amusement
park owner) travelling back in time to prevent the Extremists from
destroying Angor. This story introduced more members of the team (now
called the Justifiers), including:

-   THE BOWMAN - A womanizing archer, with a tendency to go for "black
    widow types". Pastiche of Hawkeye. First appeared in one panel of
    the "Extremist Vector" storyline in Justice League Europe #15-18.
    Subsequent appearances include "When You Wish..." in Justice League
    Quarterly #3, the "With a Vengeance!" storyline in
    Superman/Batman #20-24, and in the new Lord Havok and the
    Extremists series.
-   TIN MAN - An armored hero with a heart condition. Pastiche of Iron
    Man.
-   T.A. - A heroine with metal wings.
-   BUG - A pastiche of Spider-Man that appears as a hero in Justice
    League Quarterly #3 and as a villain in "With a Vengeance!"

In 2008's Final Crisis event, a team called the Justifiers are
controlled by the Anti-Life Equation, and now "justify" Darkseid's rule
of the Earth.


Other versions

Lord Havok and The Extremists

In the new Lord Havok and The Extremists series (2007), new versions
of the Champions are featured on Earth-8. They are now part of a group
called the META-MILITIA with Tin Man as president of Angor and
Americommando as vice president. When Tin Man is killed by Lord Havok,
Americommando becomes president with Blue Jay as his vice President.
Americommando is sleeping with T.A. behind Blue Jay's back. Blue Jay
eventually turns against Americommando, the latter having forged an
alliance with Monarch, arrests him for crimes against humanity, and
takes his place as president. Wandjina is also featured, now a closeted
homosexual. During a battle between the Meta-Militia and the Extremists,
he is swallowed whole by Gorgon.

The New 52: Earth 7 and Earth 8

Two versions of the Champions of Angor are introduced in the first issue
of Grant Morrison's The Multiversity series. In the  Multiverse
following its The New 52 reboot, Earth-7 and Earth-8 are sister worlds,
representing pastiches of the Ultimate  imprint and the mainstream
 universe respectively. In the beginning of The
Multiversity, a terrible evil comes to Earth-7 and utterly destroys it,
leaving its only hero as Thor analogue THUNDERER (whose closest
counterpart is Wundajin of Earth-8).

While Earth 8 continues to feature Lord Havok, the Champions of Angor
are replaced by THE RAMPAGING RETALIATORS, themselves an Avengers
pastiche whose "Retaliators ready!" echoes the latter's rallying cry of
"Avengers assemble!". The other residents of Earth 8 include:

-   THE FUTURE FAMILY, a pastiche of the Fantastic Four. Led by FRANK
    FUTURE, a pastiche of Mister Fantastic who Lord Havok claims to be
    the "greatest creation" of.
-   THE G-MEN, "neo-humans" and a pastiche of the X-Men.
-   AMERICAN CRUSADER, a pastiche of Captain America and member of
    the Retaliators.
-   WUNDAJIN, a pastiche of Thor with a "lightning axe" who is identical
    in appearance to the Champions of Angor's Wandjina and is a member
    of the Retaliators.
-   BEHEMOTH, a pastiche of the Incredible Hulk who grows into a giant
    blue infant when angered and is known as Dr. David Dibble when in
    human form; a member of the Retaliators.
-   MACHINEHEAD, a pastiche of Iron Man and member of the Retalitors.
-   LADYBUG, a pastiche of Spider-Woman and member of the Retaliators.
-   THE BUG, a pastiche of Spider-Man, known as "The Hero You Hate
    to Love".
-   STUNTMASTER, a pastiche of Daredevil.

While not named, the Retaliators include pastiches of what appear to be
Black Widow, Hawkeye, Falcon, and Captain .

