FRANK WILLIAM "CHAS" CHANDLER is a fictional character in the
Hellblazer series published by ' Vertigo imprint. Chas is
John Constantine's closest and longest surviving friend, who acts as his
sidekick and cab driver. He first appeared in Hellblazer #1.


Fictional character biography

Born Francis William Chandler, but nicknamed "Chas" after the famous
bassist for The Animals. The roots of their friendship can be traced
back to the late sixties, when a sixteen-year-old John Constantine
arrived on the streets of London for the second time in his young life,
with nothing to his name but an overly sarcastic sense of humour and a
half-empty pack of Silk Cut cigarettes. Eager to get a cheap roof
over his head, John leapt at the chance to move in with his new-found
mate, even if he did live with his mother. John's housewarming consisted
of a tense meeting with Chas' obese mother Queenie and her vile monkey
familiar Slag.

Unable to put up with his miserable existence at the hands of his mother
and her simian familiar, Chas broke down and told John all about his
pitiful life – revealing how Slag appeared on the scene shortly after
his brother was hanged and his mother killed his father. A dabbler in
petty magics, Queenie made her wage by holding the occasional séance and
the like. Chas' real problems came from Slag, the chimpanzee delighted
in ruining his life, using her obnoxious body odor to great effect in
alienating him from his mates as well as putting paid to what was
already a pretty pathetic love life.

Constantine decided to get involved. He seduced Slag, conning the monkey
into thinking that he loved her so he could lure her down to the docks,
where he drowned her. Aware of the symbiotic link that existed between
witch and familiar, John knew that by killing Slag he'd be killing
Queenie too. From this one act, Chas felt beholden to Constantine for
over thirty long years – though truth to tell it's their deeply held
sense of respect and friendship that has seen them willingly face all
kinds of stark raving lunacy to help each other out. He later joins John
and his band Mucous Membrane as a roadie.

With this unusual debt serving as a backdrop, Chas has become John's
oldest and closest friend. The pair seemingly take turns at pulling each
other's arse out of the fire, with Chas providing the muscle and
Constantine the brains. Chas has gone on to become a taxi-driver by
trade and often finds himself being coerced into being John's "wheels"
for whatever escapade he currently finds himself involved in.
Constantine's determination to keep his friend protected from the
weirder aspects of his life has often led to a frustrated Chas berating
the magus for keeping him in the dark whilst at the same time demanding
his help.

Due to their close friendship Constantine prefers to keep Chas away from
the more dangerous aspects of his work, but it's the same friendship
which allows Constantine and Chas to pull each other out of bad
situations. He is married to Renee Chandler and father to Geraldine
Chandler, with a granddaughter, Tricia Chandler.

Chas The Knowledge

Chas stars in the spin-off entitled Hellblazer Presents: Chas – The
Knowledge. After a demon is released from The London Stone after
centuries of confinement, Chas Chandler finds himself standing between
it and oblivion for the entire city. With John stuck in Ibiza, Chas must
round up his most trusted colleagues and put the demon back in the
bottle before all is lost. But Chas is a master of "The Knowledge," the
elaborate system of routes and landmarks which every London cabbie must
memorize. Until now, The Knowledge has been just a tool for Chas. But
now, he's about to discover a more sinister significance of The
Knowledge. An ominous entity from London's grim history has reemerged,
and only someone with The Knowledge can stop it. The demon, named
Tuma'el, stands poised to take control of London's very soul. Chas has
managed to array a small group of friends and allies, which does not
include John, to fight back against the demonic force.

The Sandman

Chas appears in the comic book series The Sandman. He drives John and
Dream to Rachel's father's house so that Dream can retrieve his pouch.
In Books of Magick: Life During Wartime written by Si Spencer, with
script consultations by Neil Gaiman (who also featured John and Chas in
Sandman), there comes the alternate universe where John and Chas are
fifteen-year-old lesbians.

The Search for the Swamp Thing

The conclusion of the series Brightest Day revealed that Swamp Thing
had become corrupted by the personality of the villain Nekron in the
wake of the Blackest Night crossover. This also marks Chas' first
appearance in the  outside of Vertigo. After John finds out that Swamp
Thing has gotten delirious, he and Chas attempt to stop the attacks in
London.

Injustice

Chas appears as a supporting character in Year 3 of the Injustice: Gods
Among Us comic book spin-off.


In other media

Film

The character Chas Kramer (Shia LaBeouf) appears in the film
Constantine. Chas is John's cab driver and his apprentice. Though very
knowledgeable about the occult and demonology, he feels excluded from
Constantine's more important cases. He takes part in the final battle
against the demons alongside John. John and Chas work together to
exorcise Mammon from the body of Angela Dodson, but Chas is killed by
Gabriel afterward. He later becomes an angel.

Television

Chas appears in the TV series Constantine portrayed by Charles
Halford described as Constantine’s oldest friend and staunch
companion, who possesses supernatural survival skills, as he shows a
highly advanced healing factor in several incidents where a normal
person would die. This is later revealed to stem from Constantine's
having cast a protection on Chas that caused him to absorb the lives of
47 people who died when a nightclub he was in caught fire. Chas absorbed
the life force of each person; and each of his deaths uses up one of
them.

