CHRIS KL-99 is a 1950s science fiction comic book character whose
adventures were published by National Comics, now known as . He
first appeared in Strange Adventures #1 (cover-dated August 1950), and
was created by science fiction author Edmond Hamilton and artist Howard
Sherman.


Publication history

'The Adventures of Chris KL99' first appeared in Strange Adventures #1
(August 1950). With a slight name change to KL-99 from issue #2, he made
eight appearances in the title in total - issues #1-#3, #5, #7, #9 and
#11, ending with Strange Adventures #15 (December 1951), all written
by Edmond Hamilton and drawn by Howard Sherman. Since then, a brief
appearance in  Presents #78 (February 1985), a cameo
appearance in Crisis on Infinite Earths #10 (January 1986), and a
brief but completely revised origin story in Secret Origins #43
(August 1989) have been his only other appearances to date.


Fictional character biography

According to his early adventures, Chris KL, the son of Jon ST-94, was
born on a spaceship somewhere between Earth and Mars, the first Earth
child to be born in outer space, in the 21st century, and was named
after Christopher Columbus. He became an instant celebrity, but was
kidnapped by aliens on his eighth birthday and not returned for nine
years. It turned out that the aliens were a dying race, and chose him to
train for some still unknown purpose. They had not meant to kidnap him,
but were unable to communicate their wishes to anyone else.

After his return, his parents left Earth to find new worlds to colonize
on the exploratory spaceship 'The Starfarer', and were not seen again.
According to one version of his story, Chris then vowed to go to Space
Academy so he could journey to find them when he was older, and after
graduating from Space Academy '99' was appended to his name because of
his 99% rating at the Academy, and he later became the greatest space
explorer of his day. Another version of Chris's story has him not
returning to Earth, but traveling in space to find the last surviving
aliens to continue his training with them, appending the KL to his name
in honor of the alien race, the K'l, and the 99 in acknowledgement that
there were only 98 of the aliens left alive when he was with them.
Whatever the correct version, accompanied by Halk, a Martian scientist
(once Chief Scientist of Mars), Jero, a Venusian, and a pet chameleon
dog, Loopy, whose color changes according to his mood, he discovered
many alien worlds (and a sub-atomic universe) in his spaceship 'The
Pioneer'. In recognition of his work, he was given the authority to
protect the people of the new worlds he discovered from danger as
'Commissioner for Protection of Planetary Peoples'.

Chris eventually found 'The Starfarer' and his parents' graves on the
planet where they had died saving the rest of the crew in a crash.
Other adventures involved saving the ancient Earth monuments from aliens
in need of metal to save their universe, and rediscovering a second
moon that used to orbit Earth millions of years ago.

He was present during the  Universe 'Crisis on Infinite Earths', first
in his own time to help Superman and the Forgotten Heroes defeat the
Forgotten Villains at the start of the Crisis, and then towards the
end of Crisis to help with powering the time machines critical to saving
the universe.

