CHRONOS is the name of several fictional characters of 
supervillains who take their name from the Greek personification of Time
and have the ability of time travel and can manipulate history.


Fictional character biography

David Clinton

The archenemy of the Atom (Ray Palmer), Chronos started his career as
petty thief DAVID CLINTON, who attributed his consistent incarceration
to his timing, or lack thereof. To improve his timing, he studied the
rhythm of time pieces and by practice he learned to synchronize each of
his actions with the beat of the prison clock. By the end of his
sentence he had developed an extraordinary sense of timing which he
resolved to use to further his criminal career. He then adopted the
colorful costume and alter ego of Chronos, the Time Thief. Clinton had
acquired an unhealthy fascination with time and he developed a series of
gimmick weapons and deathtraps based on time pieces (clocks with blades
as hands, flying sun dials). He liked to give time related puns, such as
"Time is golden!" when spraying golden gas at Green Lantern.

Chronos made his debut in Ivy Town, but was defeated by the Atom when he
tried to steal an atomic clock because of an idea ironically given to
him by Ray Palmer. He came close to deducing the Atom's secret identity
when he realised the Atom attacked him soon after Ray saw him, and
succeeded in capturing the Atom and placing him inside a watch. The Atom
escaped the watch while Chronos was breaking into a vault, and used a
trick to make him think he was wrong. However he escaped from jail by
adapting a guard's watch, making the ticks so loud they broke open his
cell door. He next tried to steal a collection of historic Hungarian
clocks which each had a gem hidden inside, but was again defeated. The
Atom has since thwarted all of Chronos' plans. Each appearance or new
crime prompted an evolution in Chronos' weaponry. His study of time led
to more intricate and revolutionary inventions—lenses that prevent
people from seeing certain events (e.g. his getaway vehicle or another
specific object), circuitry embedded in his costume that could control
the local flow of time (freezing people in time or altering his own
perception of time), an hourglass of concentrated time that could speed
points up briefly and even make bricks next to a bank vault crumble in a
few seconds, and ultimately a fully functional time machine (before it
and the designs were destroyed). One story suggests that Chronos may
have been receiving help from a future version of himself, but it is
unknown at what relative time frame that Chronos came from. Another
story, published in World's Finest Comics #321 (1985), suggests that
Chronos made the transition from a mere thief with a time gimmick to a
full-fledged time traveler after becoming acquainted with the mysterious
Dr. Fox (perhaps named after Gardner Fox), a criminal scientist who had
never been apprehended and who was described by Chronos as "the greatest
mind since Einstein." Pre-Crisis Chronos was a member of the Crime
Champions, a trio of Earth-1 villains who teamed up with a trio of
Earth-2 villains to commit robberies, then escape to the other world
using a vibratory device the Fiddler accidentally discovered. Chronos is
able to escape Wonder Woman, Batman and Green Lantern after stealing a
million dollars from the Powers City Bank. When the Earth-2 Crime
Champions impersonate the Earth-1 Crime Champions, the Icicle
impersonates Chronos with the help of the Wizard's Tibetan magic, and
fought Batman, Wonder Woman and Green Lantern, making them touch rubber,
animal, and glass as part of a spell to trap the JLA. On Earth-2 Chronos
tries to steal a rare clock from a lighthouse, and uses his vibratory
watch to put Aquaman into a coma, but Superman is able to revive Aquaman
and captures Chronos, crushing his watch. The JLA and JSA are captured
again and magically placed in cages in space, but with the aid of the
Green Lanterns escape and return to Earth. Chronos tries to help the
Fiddler find an Earth-3 with his chronological knowledge, but is
defeated by the Martian Manhunter and Black Canary.

Chronos eventually stopped stealing for his own gain and began stealing
to finance his time research. The Atom had always thwarted Chronos, but
he had decided to turn his back on humanity and had retreated to a
peaceful seclusion with a group of six-inch tall aliens in the Amazonian
jungle. Chronos had more success without the Atom, but he brought
himself to the attention of the Blue Beetle when he tried to blackmail
one of the employees of Kord Inc. He also fought the Beetle during
Darkseid's anti-hero riots. During one struggle against the Beetle,
Chronos was hurled 100 million years into the past where he encountered
a time-lost Captain Atom. He later met a time traveling Superman who
Chronos manipulated into helping him get home.

Upon his return to the present, Chronos was able to use his technology
to manipulate the money markets to amass a fortune. However, Chronos's
illegal endeavors were discovered and he was returned to prison. He was
freed by the Calendar Man to work with the Time Foes, but was captured
by the Teen Titans. Out of desperation and humiliation, Chronos took a
drastic chance — he accepted an offer from the demon Neron and exchanged
his soul for the metahuman ability to travel through time. However
bargains with Neron are never fair and Chronos found that each journey
through the timestream accelerated his aging. A man who should have been
a healthy adult became an aged senior citizen. Clinton's efforts to
bypass this flaw - passing his artificial age onto youths and
intercepting other time travelers in an attempt to acquire their
technology - brought him briefly into conflict with the Legion of
Super-Heroes, in a somewhat confusing and often non-linear sequence of
events.

All the experiments and Neron's "gift" had taken a toll on Clinton's
body and he began to lose touch with any sense of the "now." He had
trouble staying localized in time and appeared to fade away into
nothingness. His disappearance was enough for him to be declared dead
and speculation has suggested that he may have slipped into "The Void"
of time. A funeral of sorts was held and his research was passed on to
the second Chronos (Walker Gabriel).

Time travel being what it is, David Clinton's legal death has not meant
the end of his presence in the  universe; he has made several
appearances since, such as during the Identity Crisis, when he claimed
to have traveled forward from a point in time shortly before his final
disappearance. This foreknowledge of his own (suspected) demise led to a
somewhat subdued, even morose, demeanor.

In The All-New Atom #12, it was revealed that the wacky Anagram guy
that has been testing and helping Ryan Choi (The New Atom) is none other
than Chronos himself. In issue #20, he is revealed as the mastermind
behind all of the strange occurrences surrounding Ivy Town since the
start of the series. His vengeful goal is to destroy everything that Ray
Palmer loved.

He's able to do so by joining forces with Lady Chronos, a new
companion and lover who once was Jia, Ryan's love interest in their
college years. With Jia's intimate knowledge about Ryan, he was able to
add a further layer of credibility to his ruse, faking years of
correspondence and epistular friendship between Ryan and Ray Palmer,
spurring Ryan to follow in Palmer's footsteps only to disgrace him in
the eyes of Ivy Town, shaming the Atom's legacy forever.

With some help from the real Ray Palmer, Ryan is eventually able to
overcome the couple, and prevent David and Jia from messing again with
Ivy Town. They retreat into the timestream, where they are noticed by
Starro the Conqueror who, after being thwarted in his attempts to gain
total domination over time by enslaving Rip Hunter and his Time
Masters, retaliates by dominating Chronos' and Lady Chronos' minds,
using them to travel in time and put Booster Gold against Rip,
eradicating the Time Masters.

In The New 52 (a reboot of the  universe), David Clinton is an
agent of A.R.G.U.S. who specializes in time travel. He was tasked with
finding Booster Gold after the events of Justice League International
Annual #1 (October 2012). However, he had apparently failed his mission
and was captured by the as-yet-unidentified leader of the newly formed
Secret Society of Super Villains. Green Arrow discovers him as a captive
while pursuing Professor Ivo. Professor Ivo states that the engine that
Chronos is stuck in is activated. Chronos causes a temporal neutral
field to envelope the manor, causing it to freeze in place throughout
time, while the earth turns....which means that the Earth moves, not the
manor. Thanks to the coins that the Secret Society have been given, they
are able to stay within the manor without issue, but the Justice League
of America is going to face a very painful death if they do not leave
the house soon. Chronos was eventually rescued by the Justice League of
America.

Walker Gabriel

[Chronos #1 (March 1998). Art by Paul Guinan.] Walker Gabriel got
possession of Clinton's research after his death. He became the second
Chronos and was the lead character of a short-lived comic book series
published by , acting as both a hero and a criminal depending
on circumstances, and often running afoul of the Linear Men. He was
eventually revealed to be the son of a temporal theorist who had worked
with Clinton and created Chronopolis, the city beyond time. The series
ran for 12 issues (including a  One Million crossover numbered
1,000,000) between March 1998 and February 1999, and concluded with
Gabriel wiping himself from history, to save his mother's life. The
nature of Chronopolis, however, meant he still existed despite not being
born. Still, due to an unclear series of events, it appeared in fact two
Walker Gabriels existed: one outside of time, one within it, but only up
to the point when he removed himself out of it. After that, the timeline
streamlined and only the timetraveling Chronos remained. Gabriel had
many encounters with members of the Linear Men and also met Destiny of
the Endless during this series.

Gabriel briefly appeared in the pages of JSA (2005); there, he was
killed by Per Degaton when he was struck by a car a decade before
receiving his time-travel powers; however, as is the case when Degaton's
adventures end in failure, his death was reversed.

Gabriel most recently had a cameo in "Superman Beyond 3D" #1 as an
inhabitant of Limbo.

Lady Chronos (Jia)

Jia, a young Chinese woman from Hong Kong, was the longtime sweetheart
of the young and socially awkward Ryan Choi, a stereotypical nerd more
interested in science than a social life. Eventually, Jia and Ryan
parted, and she ended up marrying the local football jock, Alvin, a guy
who at high school did his best to make Ryan's life miserable.

Ryan Choi, now an American teacher and the new Atom, at Ivy University,
was contacted again by Jia, claiming that her husband, who had died in
unclear circumstances, had resurfaced as an undead being who was
harassing and stalking her. Ryan, still carrying a torch for Jia,
returned to Hong Kong to fight the menace of Alvin, and his undead gang
of bullies.

There Alvin revealed how Jia herself had brutally killed him, and she
was far from being the helpless woman she pretended to be to rekindle
her relationship with Ryan. They parted again.

Sometime after that, Jia came into possession of Clinton's research, and
became the third Chronos, or later Lady Chronos. Wearing a female
version of the classic Clinton's outfit, she allied with Clinton in his
attempt to destroy Ivy Town and ruin the Atom's reputation for good.
Using her knowledge about Ryan, she helped Chronos into faking a mail
correspondence with Ryan, giving him the shrinking belt he eventually
used to become the Atom, but planting the seeds of his downfall,
trapping part of the denizens of Ivy Town in a microverse held in
strange viral constructs hidden in Ryan's bloodstream.

With some help from the former Atom, Ray Palmer, Ryan dodged the bullet,
but still feels responsible for Jia's wrongdoings.

Jia claims that Dwarfstar, master assassin and shrinking nemesis of
Ryan, is her "firstborn". Whether she's speaking literally, or
metaphorically as both men got their powers by her actions, remains to
be seen.

Lady Chronos is later seen as a mind-controlled pawn of Starro the
Conqueror, along with Chronos. During her battle against Booster Gold
for ensuring Starro's domination of the timestream, she reveals to know
with a certain degree of intimacy the future adventures of Booster and
his sister Goldstar, having observed and interacted with them.


Other versions

-   In JLA/Avengers Chronos is among the enthralled villains defending
    Krona's base in #4. He is defeated by Wasp.


In other media

Television

[Chronos as seen in Justice League Unlimited]

-   The David Clinton incarnation of Chronos appears in the two-part
    Justice League Unlimited animated series episode "The Once and
    Future Thing" voiced by Peter MacNicol. A meek physics professor
    from the Batman Beyond era, he was ostracized by his peers for his
    theories on time travel but secretly perfected a
    time-traveling device. Aware of the problems of time paradoxes, he
    uses the device to add to his collection of rare artifacts, stealing
    the items from the past at the points when they would no longer be
    missed (e.g. Cleopatra's comb, an early draft of the Magna
    Carta, etc.). Eventually, the incessant hectoring from his wife Enid
    Clinton (voiced by Mindy Sterling) drove him to retreat into
    the past. While trying to steal Batman's utility belt, he attracts
    the attention of Batman, Wonder Woman and Green Lantern so he tries
    to escape and they follow him and are accidentally pulled into the
    Old West. In the time between his arrival and theirs, Clinton's time
    belt was stolen by local villain Tobias Manning and used it to steal
    future technology and take over the town. After the three League
    members as well as several Western heroes (consisting of Jonah Hex,
    Bat Lash, El Diablo and Ohiyesa Smith) defeat Manning, Clinton
    tricked Batman into enabling him to get the belt and retreated into
    his time. Now power-hungry and increasingly unstable, he makes
    himself "the undisputed master of space and time" while adopting his
    Chronos identity. After following Chronos to the Batman Beyond
    era, the three Leaguers discover that his trips through time have
    severely impacted the timeline; the Titanic and the Leaning Tower of
    Pisa are situated alongside Gotham's architecture, amongst other
    bizarre things. The three Leaguers also find that Chronos has allied
    with the third brand of the Jokerz. Chronos's irresponsible actions
    are causing time to collapse. After Wonder Woman was erased from
    existence, Batman and Green Lantern team up with the remaining
    roster of the JLU: Warhawk, Static, Batman II and the future version
    of Bruce Wayne. Now fearful, Enid leads the combined Justice League
    to the Old West jail that Chronos had brought to the future where he
    slept every night (presumably because his six months in the jail
    cell were a vacation away from his nagging wife and far more
    comfortable to him). After a pitched battle where Static and Batman
    II are killed and Warhawk barely survived, only Batman, Green
    Lantern and Chronos are left unincapitated. As time begins to fall
    apart all around them, Chronos escapes into the timestream intending
    to return to the beginning of time to reset and make himself into
    a god. When the two heroes catch up with him, Batman inserts a disc
    into Chronos's belt that reverses everything that had happened just
    before they reach the Beginning. With the timeline restored, Green
    Lantern and Batman return to the present day (retaining the memories
    of their experience but Wonder Woman does not) while Clinton himself
    is stuck in a permanent time-loop of the last few seconds of his
    life before the whole chain started, which happens to be his wife
    Enid berating him for all eternity (a la Groundhog Day).
-   Chronos appears in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold episode
    "Sword of the Atom!". He has returned to attack the city causing
    Batman and Ryan Choi to look for Ray Palmer. By the end of the
    episode, Batman, Ryan Choi, and Aquaman end up fighting Chronos
    while Ray Palmer stays with the Kartathians.
-   Chronos appears as a recurring antagonist in Legends of Tomorrow,
    played by Dominic Purcell. He is a temporal bounty hunter, employed
    by the Time Masters to capture Rip Hunter, who went rogue and is
    leading a team on an unauthorized mission to prevent Vandal Savage
    from conquering the world. In "Left Behind", it is revealed that
    Chronos is a older version of Mick Rory / Heat Wave, a former member
    of the team. Rory had betrayed them to a band of space pirates which
    led to his being marooned by his former partner, Leonard Snart /
    Captain Cold. Found barely alive by the Time Masters, he was brought
    to Vanishing Point and trained by them to be their agent. When
    tasked to capture Hunter's team, Rory eagerly accepted. However, he
    is ultimately defeated by the team and imprisoned on their ship, the
    Waverider, in the hope of rehabilitating their former teammate.

Miscellaneous

-   Chronos makes an appearance in issue #22 of the TV series-based
    SuperFriends comic.
-   In an issue of Justice League Adventures (adapted from Justice
    League) titled "Wolf's Clothing," Chronos (not the latter version
    in Justice League Unlimited) captured the Justice League and plots
    to auction them off to the highest bidding villain. Although this
    plan was later revealed to be an elaborate 'sting' operation set up
    by the Justice League to capture most of their villains). In another
    issue called "The Moment," Flash and Atom discover that he's
    traveled to the past to prevent the death of his brother Bobby in a
    fire, but his interference (to the point that multiple versions of
    him keep traveling back in time to the same moment to try and
    change history) threatens to wreck the timestream, forcing them to
    bring his brother into his future to convince Chronos to move on
    from his death.

