''This article is about the fictional comic book character. For the art
magazine, see Coagula Art Journal ''

COAGULA (real name KATE GODWIN) is a fictional character and former
member of 's Doom Patrol. Kate is a trans woman, one of the
first transgender characters in comics, and remains one of the only
transgender superheroines. The character was created by transsexual
science fiction writer Rachel Pollack. According to the Comics Journal,
Rachel Pollack based the character's civilian name on two friends of
hers. The friends in question are transgender writer and actress Kate
Bornstein and the transsexual activist Chelsea Goodwin. Rachel wanted
to create a positive portrayal of a lesbian transgender lady.


Fictional character biography

Kate gains her powers while working as a prostitute. One of her
customers is Rebis, a radioactive hermaphrodite; after Kate has sex with
them, she discovers she can coagulate liquids and dissolve solids at
will. She first tries out for the Justice League, but is rejected by
them. She meets the Doom Patrol while battling a villain called the
Codpiece, who has devices such as a gun, a drill, and a spring-loaded
boxing glove built into a special codpiece he designed and built.
Coagula dissolves the device.

Early on Kate is identified as a lesbian, but as the series progresses
it becomes clear she is bisexual. She begins a romance with Robotman.

The name Coagula comes from the alchemical term "Solve et Coagula",
meaning "dissolve and coagulate".

A while after the Doom Patrol split, Kate and Cliff take teammate
Dorothy Spinner on a camping trip with the intention of telling her she
is adopted. However, after hearing this, Dorothy suffers a mental
breakdown. This causes her to generate a powerful psychic explosion,
killing Kate and supposedly killing Cliff. Following this, Dorothy falls
into a coma.


Powers and abilities

After having sexual contact with Rebis (Larry Trainor + Elanor Poole),
Coagula gained the power to turn solids into liquids, and to coagulate
liquids into solid. She needs to be in touch with the object to make the
change occur.

