CODENAME: ASSASSIN is a fictional antihero, a comic book character
published by . He debuted in 1st Issue Special #11, (February
1976), and was created by Gerry Conway, Steve Skeates and Nestor Redondo
(credited as the Redondo Studio).


Fictional character biography

[1st Issue Special #11, artist Nestor Redondo] Jonathan Drew made his 
Comics debut in 1st Issue Special #11, according to his origin, he
participated in Extrasensory perception studies conducted by a Doctor
Andrew Stone at the fictional Antioke University. Due to an
inexplicable accident, Jonathan developed powers of telepathy and
telekinesis which he later used to punish the murderers of his sister
Marie. According to Ted Knight who was the Golden Age hero known as
Starman, Jonathan Drew briefly operated in Opal City during the
1970s.

Project Cadmus

For a brief time, Jonathan Drew served as head of security for Project
Cadmus; he was relieved of this position after he murdered former
policeman Jim Harper, the first hero to use the name Guardian.

Atlas

Jonathan Drew returns to the  Universe in Superman's Pal Jimmy Olsen
Special #1 (December 2008), this story updates his origin and presents
the character in a new light. Apparently, Drew had been an operative of
the American Government since his very first outing. Jonathan Drew is
seemingly part of a conspiracy directed against Superman, and for as yet
unknown reasons was responsible for the being known as Atlas' attack on
Metropolis. Drew was also responsible for the murders of Dr. Stone, the
original Newsboy Legion and the alien known as Dubbilex. He also
attempted to murder Daily Planet photojournalist Jimmy Olsen, who had
accidentally uncovered the conspiracy.

New Krypton

Drew plays a significant role as an agent of General Sam Lane in the
multi-title crossover Superman: New Krypton. He is seen with the
General when his scientists are experimenting on Brainiac.

-   Adventure Comics Special Featuring the Guardian one-shots
-   Superman's Pal Jimmy Olsen #2
-   Superman #695
-   Superman: War of the Supermen #1-4


Powers and abilities

Jonathan Drew has limited powers of telepathy, which allows him to sense
emotions, read minds (only surface thoughts), and telekinesis, which
allows him to fly, generate force fields, and lift heavy objects through
force of mind alone.

Jonathan is also a skilled marksman, and carries a pair of high tech
pistols.

