THE COMET is a fictional character, a superhero that first appeared in
the ' Impact Comics series, The Comet. The character is
loosely based on the Archie Comics character, The Comet.


Fictional character biography

The Comet's story is narrated, first-person, by the character himself in
the past tense. In the beginning, he is an ordinary human named Rob
Connors, whose only real ambition in life is to play professional
baseball. His ambition is somewhat stilted by his parents, who are
scientists living in arctic areas.

Rob returns to his parents' home one day to find it torn apart by some
kind of battle, which to all appearances took places weeks ago: our
first sign of a strange continuity clash, since Rob had been gone only a
matter of hours. In an attempt to call for help, Rob is forced to climb
up the radio mast to fix it. It collapses under his weight, and he is
pinned beneath it, unable to free himself until a sudden surge of energy
sends him soaring through the air. Assuming his powers to be the result
of an electric shock from the mast, Rob learns he can fly and generate
energy beams from his hands - one of which inadvertently sets off an
explosion. He returns to his girlfriend, a news reporter, who reprimands
him for not speaking to her for months, even though Rob wrote to her
every week. He reveals his powers to her, and she suggests he don a
costume and become a superhero, since he left a red energy trail behind
when he flew, he assumed the guise of THE COMET.

In his numerous battles as the Comet, Rob slowly learns to use his
powers. He can fly, generate heat beams and force blasts, create a
limited forcefield, and even breathe underwater by using his powers to
force the water away: he hypothesizes that this traps a bubble of air
between him and the water. The Comet is also stronger than a normal
human, and considerably tougher, though not invulnerable: shrapnel from
a grenade does his arm some damage. Eventually, Rob learns that his
powers are the result of his mind being accidentally transferred into
the body of shape-shifting aliens that were researching the Earth,
disguised as the Connors family. This is the reason for the
discontinuity in Rob's memory compared to actual events. He attempts to
force the other aliens to free his parents, but fails: they leave, never
to return. The hits keep coming, as Rob's original human body is killed
by one of the Comet's enemies, in circumstances that make it look like
the Comet was responsible. He goes to his girlfriend for help, only to
discover that she knew all along, and was in fact the one who sent the
aliens to the Connors. In attempting to reveal this story on the news,
she breaks the bargain she made with the aliens, and the last of them on
the planet kills her. The police attempt to arrest the Comet for the
murder of Rob Connors. Rob tries to unmask himself to prove himself
blameless, but accidentally accesses his alien shapeshifting ability in
his desire to show his face, and morphs into a one-eyed alien monster.
Horrified, Rob tears away from the scene, and is apparently killed in an
explosion. We learn later, in The Crucible, that he didn't die, but
resumed human form and became a baseball player named Jay Cole with no
memory of his earlier life.

His true identity is revealed by The Black Hood, and they team up for a
while. However, the Tomorrow Men, a group of time-manipulating
businessmen, make it look like the Hood was intending to betray the
Comet, and in insane rage, the Comet irradiates an entire city. The city
is covered over with an immense dome, but the Comet breaks free,
intending to kill Jordan, the world's greatest authority on energy
control, whom he believes is a threat to him. His attack is foiled by
one of the Tomorrow Men, who captures the Comet, intending to steal his
energy to power the Tomorrow Men's base. The Comet breaks free, but is
sent back to Earth, where the Black Hood is forced, regretfully, to kill
him.


Powers and abilities

Comet had the ability to manipulate photonic energy to fire blasts of
force, heat, blinding light, and laser beams. He could fly at supersonic
speeds, leaving a red energy trail behind him. He could also generate a
protective halo of light that could deflect most physical attacks, but
could not protect him from heat based attacks (when a robot used a flame
thrower on him, his used his halo to block the attack, but he still got
mildly burned). He could also shapeshift and was stronger than a normal
human.

Category:Archie Comics superheroes Category: superheroes
Category:Comics characters introduced in 1991 Category:Extraterrestrial
superheroes Category:Fictional shapeshifters Category:Characters created
by Mark Waid
