COMMANDER STEEL (also STEEL or CITIZEN STEEL) is the name of three
fictional characters, superheroes published by , all members of
the same family. The first Steel appeared in Steel, The Indestructible
Man #1 (1978) published by , and was created by Gerry Conway
and Don Heck. His stories were set in World War II. The two later
characters called Steel are his grandsons.


Publishing history

Steel first appeared in a series set in 1939, Steel: The Indestructible
Man, written by Captain America writer Gerry Conway. The series was
canceled after five issues, and Steel later made a guest-appearance in
Justice League of America. Steel or Commander Steel also appeared
in and was a member of the World War II era All-Star Squadron team. He
made a prominent appearance many years later in four issues of the
Eclipso ongoing series, where he was killed. After this, he appeared
in issue #2 of the 2010 series,  Universe: Legacies, which
chronicled the superheroes of the 1940s.

Starting in 1984, the second Steel appeared as one of the lead
characters in Justice League of America, until its cancellation
during the Legends crossover in 1987. He made a single appearance
several years later in issue #38 of Justice League America, a
continuation of Justice League International, where he was killed off.
In 2006, he played a leading posthumous role in a single story arc of
JLA Classified, which chronicled a previously unrevealed adventure of
the Detroit-era JLA. In 2010, he played a major role in the two-issue
Justice League of America (vol. 2) tie-in to Blackest Night, where
he was temporarily resurrected.

The third Steel made his debut in the 2007 relaunch of Justice Society
of America, where he appeared for several years until the team was
split into two separate groups by writers Bill Willingham and Matt
Sturges, where he appeared as one of the lead characters in JSA
All-Stars. In The New 52 he is shown to exist on Earth 2, under the
name Captain Steel.


Fictional character biography

Henry Heywood

The World War II version of the character, Henry Heywood, enlisted in
the United States Marine Corps prior to the United States involvement in
the war, but was injured when saboteurs, spearheaded by the man who
would become Baron Blitzkrieg, attacked his base. Heywood had been a
biology student under the tutelage of Doctor Gilbert Giles, and his
former professor performed extensive surgery on him, enhancing his
damaged body with mechanized steel devices that gave him superhuman
strength, speed, and durability. At the request of Doctor Giles, Heywood
kept his newfound gifts a secret, and was returned to service in a desk
position. Frustrated at his inability to help more directly, Heywood
adopted the masked-hero persona "Steel", and was attempting to steal
armaments from the military base where he worked—to send to those more
directly in the war's fray—when some fifth columnist saboteurs broke
into the base. Heywood defeated the saboteurs, and embarked on a
career fighting foreign threats and other criminals before America went
to war.

Heywood entered more directly into World War II as a secret weapon
before he allied himself with the All-Star Squadron. In that time he was
commissioned COMMANDER STEEL by British Prime Minister Winston Churchill
. His membership in the Squadron was only for a brief period as Crisis
on Infinite Earths caused him to shift from his native Earth-Two to the
Post-Crisis Earth, wherein he retired from his superhero career as there
were no active costumed heroes at that time on his new home.

Years later, as a wealthy industrialist, he incorporated the same
mechanized components into his grandson, Hank Heywood III.

After his grandson's death, Heywood resumed the mantle of Commander
Steel and died battling the supervillain Eclipso, while a member of the
Shadow Fighters. He did come to a heroic end - detonating the Sunburst
300 (a device meant to destroy Eclipso) as his teammate Nemesis
escaped. {{-}}

Hank Heywood III

The second Steel was the late HENRY "HANK" HEYWOOD III. Commander Steel,
a wealthy industrialist, incorporated the same mechanized components
into his grandson, much to his grandson's disapproval. Heywood III was a
"Justice League Detroit" team member, and was mortally wounded in battle
against an android belonging to one of the team's classic foes,
Professor Ivo. His body remained preserved in the JLA Bunker until it
was discovered and destroyed by Despero.

Although it was originally stated that Heywood performed unnecessary
surgeries on his grandson, it was later revealed in Justice League of
America #260 that if he hadn't made his grandson into Steel, "Hank
would have been dead... years ago._" This is questionable, as Hank
later remarked that his grandfather may have been driven insane by the
metal in his skull.

In a Justice League of America tie-in to the Blackest Night
crossover, Steel was reanimated as a member of the Black Lantern Corps
in the Hall of Justice. Alongside the Black Lantern Vibe, Steel
attacked his former teammates, Gypsy and Vixen, until Doctor Light
destroyed him. During a later battle between the Justice League and
Crime Syndicate of America at the Hall of Justice, Steel's remains were
destroyed by Superwoman. The villainess even went so far as to use one
of Steel's severed legs as a club, which she proceeded to use to
bludgeon Donna Troy. {{-}}

Nathan Heywood

The relaunched Justice Society of America features another member of
the Heywood family. During an interview to Newsarama, new series writer
Geoff Johns announced him as a brand new character with new powers.
He debuted in Justice Society of America #2 with the name of NATHAN
"BUCKEYE" HEYWOOD.

Nathan is the grandson of Henry Heywood and cousin of Henry Heywood III.
Formerly a football star at The Ohio State University, Nathan retired
after shattering his kneecap and having his leg amputated due to an
undiagnosed infection. The incident left Nathan addicted to painkillers.

While attending a Heywood family reunion, he is attacked by the Fourth
Reich, a team of metahuman Neo-Nazis ordered by Vandal Savage to wipe
out the bloodlines of Golden Age heroes. The Fourth Reich fails to
completely destroy the Heywood bloodline, as both Nathan and a few
children manage to survive. Both Nathan's brother and mother are turned
to metal statues by the villain Reichsmark. Nathan jams his crutch into
Reichsmark's mouth, causing him to spit liquid metal blood onto Nathan.
Hawkman takes him to Dr. Mid-Nite, who notes that the metal is being
absorbed by Nathan's skin.

Later, it is revealed that the metal has grown out from where Nathan's
amputated leg once was, forming metallic bone, muscles, and flesh.
Waking in his hospital room, Nathan is shown to have superhuman
strength. Dr. Mid-Nite informs Nathan that he is now a being of living
steel, due to an unknown reaction to Reichsmark's blood. However, the
steel tissues do not give Nathan tactile response, meaning he cannot
feel textures or temperatures, nor gauge exerted pressures, and his
weight has greatly increased, causing his footsteps to crack the ground.
He is given a costume, a "second skin" of a stainless steel alloy
developed by Dr. Mid-Nite and Mr. Terrific specifically to restrict his
movements and reduce his strength to a more manageable level. They chose
the costume's colors because of Heywood's heritage. He then joins the
Justice Society to defeat the Fourth Reich. Afterwards, the press
asks if he is the new Commander Steel. Nathan denies it, saying that he
is just an ordinary citizen, and so he is christened "Citizen Steel" by
Power Girl.

When the Third World survivor Gog appears, Nathan is one of the JSA
members who sides with him, hoping that Gog can restore his sense of
touch. It is later revealed that Gog is rooting himself into the
Earth, which would cause its destruction if he ever left, and when the
unconverted JSAers battle him, they are blown away by winds created by
Gog. Nathan alone is able to withstand the winds. Gog offers Nathan his
greatest wishes fulfilled if he sides with him and worships him, but
Nathan refuses, and joins the fight against him. For this act, Gog
induces excruciating pain in Nathan. Nathan then tears off his suit
and unleashes his full strength against Gog, actually managing to topple
the giant, which gives Gog's former herald Magog the chance to cut off
his head and send him to the Source Wall.

Following Gog's defeat, Nathan takes time off from the JSA to be with
his family. This consists of survivors of the attack on the reunion,
various children, most of whom call him 'Uncle Nathan' or 'Uncle
Nate'.

During the events of Blackest Night, Nathan helps fight off the hordes
of Black Lanterns attacking Manhattan. He tries to help Power Girl
during her battle with the newly reanimated Kal-L, but is knocked aside
by the hero, who mockingly refers to him as a "paperweight" compared to
him.

Following the split in the Justice Society, Nathan opted to join Power
Girl's more youth-oriented team of JSA All-Stars.

The New 52

Hank Heywood Jr. appears as CAPTAIN STEEL in The New 52 title,
Earth-2. The modern version of Hank is revealed to be a young Asian
man of Filipino descent. It is stated that Hank was originally a
young boy born with a degenerative bone disorder that would have killed
him by his 18th birthday, and that his father replaced all of his bones
with an experimental metal to save his life (although it also made him
unable to feel emotion). During Darkseid's invasion of Earth-2, Hank's
father killed himself and destroyed his research in order to prevent the
Parademons from getting their hands on it.


Powers and abilities

Originally Commander Steel could only lift 1,000 pounds, but when he
appeared in the pages of the All-Star Squadron he was attributed
'super human' strength without an exact limit. He is by no means as
strong as Superman or Wonder Woman, but he is able to hold his own with
Robotman and Baron Blitzkrieg.

Citizen Steel's metallic body grants him superhuman strength and allows
him to take direct blows from opponents as powerful as Gog, and remain
standing, and in turn knocking him to the ground- the only one in the
JSA able to do so- but at the cost of retarding his sense of touch so
that he cannot really feel anything he comes in contact with, making it
hard for him to judge how much effort he should put into doing things.
His alloy suit limits his strength to controllable levels but a cost of
slowing him down, as well as making him so heavy that he has been shown
cracking pavements just by walking. Upon removing his suit, he is able
to unleash his full strength without a speed penalty.


In other media

Television

[Commander Steel in Justice League Unlimited in the series finale
episode "Destroyer".]

-   Hank Heywood III appeared several times as Commander Steel in the
    Justice League Unlimited series. He was voiced by Kevin Conroy. A
    Mattel action figure in the character's likeness (presumably called
    "Commander" Steel to differentiate him from the better known,
    current version of Steel, already a figure in the toyline)
    was released. In the series finale episode, "Destroyer", he saved
    Hawkgirl from being killed by a Parademon by throwing a shield
    at it. Also in "Destroyer", he is seen running down the Metro Tower
    stairs with Vibe, Vixen, and Gypsy, the four members of the Justice
    League Detroit era created by Gerry Conway.
-   In Batman: The Brave and the Bold episode "Powerless", he is
    referred to as Aquaman sings his rousing song of heroism he appears
    as Commander Steel as one of the heroes.

Toys

-   The original Commander Steel, Henry Heywood, was the first figure
    released in the eighth wave of the  Universe Classics line.

Commander Steel was also released through the Mattel Justice League
Unlimited line, coming in a six-pack with Superman, Crimson Fox, B'Wanna
Beast, Deadman, and Vibe.

