ALEKSANDR CREOTE—referred to almost exclusively by his surname alone—is
a fictional character from . He was created by writer Gail
Simone and artist Ed Benes. The character is the devoted partner of
Savant, and mostly appears in the Birds of Prey comic book.


Publication history

Originally, Creote was presented as a loyal villainous sidekick in
Birds of Prey.

On her message board, creator Gail Simone discussed Creote:

For most of his following appearances in "Birds,_" however, Creote has
appeared as an ally. Though his use waned after 2004, he has still
appeared sporadically to some degree up to 2007.


Fictional character biography

Creote is a Soviet Special Forces (KGB) operative. At some point, he met
and partnered with the Savant, whom he is largely subordinate to. This
loyalty has led Creote to aid and follow Savant in any way he can, even
traveling to the United States and Gotham City. Over some time, it is
implied that part of Creote's duties is helping Savant with his mental
disorder.

During his first appearance, Creote is helping Savant execute an
extortion scheme; the aim is to force Oracle to divulge Batman's secret
identity. As part of the plan, a member of Oracle's team, the Birds of
Prey is captured. This agent, Black Canary, realizes—to Creote's
surprise—during her time with the duo that Creote is in love with
Savant. She also learns from Creote that Savant is oblivious to Creote's
feelings.

Soon, Black Canary is rescued by the Birds, who then defeat Creote and
Savant. Later, Creote still dutifully aids Savant after Oracle has
encouraged the latter to begin fighting crime again. Throughout his time
as a hero and ally of the Birds, Creote is noticeably devoted to Savant.
This sometimes causes awkward situations resulting from Lady Blackhawk's
attempts to capture his attention.

Eventually, Creote and the Birds part ways when Savant claims that his
debt to Oracle has ended. However, Creote is later seen working with the
Birds again, and in his motherland. He is used as a way for the Birds to
access an exclusive former-KGB leader's auction of old Rocket Red suits.
Near the end of the mission, he is present for the rebirth of the hero
Ice, whom he and the other local Russians called "the Goddess".

In Birds of Prey (vol. 3), Creote's love for Savante is exposed, and
to his surprise, it is reciprocated. The two then enter into a
relationship as the series concludes.


Powers and abilities

In the Spetsnaz GRU, Creote was highly trained in extreme methods of
hand-to-hand combat and physically trained to deter, capture or kill
hostile agents, saboteurs, bandits, and other criminal elements. He
would also have received training in reconnaissance and sabotage.

