CRIMSON FOX is a fictional character, a French comic book superhero from
the  universe. Identical twins Vivian and Constance D'Aramis
shared the role of Crimson Fox to allow each something of a normal life,
although Vivian was much more enthusiastic about their superheroic life.
Crimson Fox originally appeared as part of Justice League Europe.


Fictional character biography

The sisters ran Revson, a major Parisian perfume company (which may
perhaps explain the origin of their pheromone powers). In order to make
their heroic actions easier, they faked Constance's death, so that one
of them could operate as Crimson Fox while the other attended business
functions. Readers of her/their comic book appearances could easily tell
the difference between the two due to Vivian's more pronounced French
accent. She was also always portrayed as a more carefree and outgoing
woman than her sister. Both sisters (first Vivian, and later Constance)
fell in love with fellow hero Metamorpho.

The first two Crimson Foxes are deceased. Vivian D'Aramis met her fate
at the hands of Puanteur in Justice League America, while Constance
D'Aramis had her throat slit by The Mist in the pages of Starman right
before the building she was in was blown up.

One Year Later

In the pages of Green Lantern, it was revealed that a new woman has
taken the mantle of the Crimson Fox, again operating as a French
superhero in Paris. She was unwillingly pressed into service and
membership by the Global Guardians, who intended to pursue Green
Lantern.

The new Crimson Fox told Hal Jordan that she is the heiress to the
D'Aramis fortune. Her relationship to Vivian and Constance is unknown.


Powers and abilities

The original Crimson Fox twins had superhuman speed and agility and
could emit pheromones that stimulated intense sexual attraction in men.
Their gloves were equipped with deadly steel talons. After Vivian's
death, Constance retreated into her animal persona and developed
enhanced senses.

The new Crimson Fox has a similarly equipped costume as the previous
version and seems to possess identical pheromone powers.


In other media

Television

-   Crimson Fox has made multiple background appearances in Justice
    League Unlimited. The TV series never specified which Crimson Fox
    it was. She is usually seen walking with another League member and
    talking to them, though her voice is never heard, although she also
    appeared fighting alongside other members of the Justice League, as
    in the episode "Dark Heart". On the six-pack toy release, it is
    stated that she is Vivian.
-   Crimson Fox appears in the pilot episode of Powerless.


Toys

Crimson Fox is an action figure from Mattel's Justice League Unlimited
Line and was released in a six pack but not widely distributed. She was
planned to be re-released by Mattel as a single card figure but the line
was cancelled before she could return to the shelves.

