DAN THE DYNA-MITE is a fictional character, a teen-aged superhero
published by . He was the young sidekick to the character TNT,
and was created by Mort Weisinger and Hal Sharp in 1942. TNT and
Dyna-Mite made their debut in World's Finest Comics #5, and starred in
Star-Spangled Comics #7-23.


Fictional character biography

Danny Dunbar was the star pupil of Thomas N. Thomas, a high school
chemistry and physical education teacher.

One evening while Thomas and Dunbar are working on an experiment,
Thomas' hand accidentally touches Dunbar's and both teacher and student
find themselves feeling more energized. Thomas realizes that each of
them has somehow absorbed the chemicals with which they have been
working. By touching each other, Thomas and Dunbar now become charged
with an unknown form of energy and briefly possess superhuman powers.

They decide not to reveal their discovery publicly for fear that it
would be misused. Instead, they use their new super-powers to fight
crime as costumed heroes. Thomas becomes known as TNT and Dunbar as Dan
the Dyna-Mite, and both join the wartime All-Star Squadron. Thomas and
Dunbar each wears a "dyna-ring." By pressing the rings together, Thomas
and Dunbar trigger a chemical reaction that temporarily charges the two
heroes with energy.

In April 1942, TNT and Dyna-Mite battle Nazi saboteurs who are
attempting to blow up a dam in Colorado. When the saboteurs flee in a
car, the pair gives chase in their own auto. One of the bullets hits the
tire of the heroes' car and it crashes and bursts into flames. The young
hero Iron Munro pulls TNT and Dyna-Mite from the wreckage. TNT is
already dead, and his spirit is carried off by the Valkyrie called Gudra
(a member of Axis Amerika). Munro takes Dyna-Mite to a hospital, where
he soon recovers.

Danny is grief-stricken but bucks up when President Roosevelt requests
that he and other young members of the All-Star Squadron take a
cross-country tour to encourage the buying of War Bonds. His
depression is worsened by the assumption that without TNT, he can no
longer use his own super-powers. Soon Danny learns he can activate them
by wearing both dyna-rings and pressing them together.

In his "golden years," Dan joins his childhood friends Neptune Perkins,
Doiby Dickles, Merry Pemberton and the Cyclone Kids (now called the
Cyclones) to form "Old Justice". They were all once sidekicks to older
superheroes. They advocate abolishing teen super-teams and butted heads
with Young Justice many times. Over the course of the Sins of Youth
storyline, a rally in D.C. over this issue occurs. It is attacked and
dozens of adult superheroes turn young and the Young Justice members
turn adult. Old Justice, unaffected, find themselves having to supervise
the chaotic crowd of younger heroes, with the aid of the now adult Young
Justice. Temporarily working out the JLA HQ in Happy Harbor, everyone
must deal with Klarion the Witch Boy, other younger supervillains and
dozens of magically created monsters. It comes down to every available
hand in a vicious battle in the snowfields outside an Alaskan scientific
complex. At the end of the adventure, once Klarion is blackmailed into
restoring the altered heroes, Old Justice realizes Young Justice really
are worthy heroes.

In 2010's U: Legacies #2, TNT and Dyna-Mite are revealed to have
been founding members of the Seven Soldiers of Victory. How
this retcon affects their histories, such as the previously established
death of TNT and Dyna-Mite's Young All-Stars stint, has not yet been
revealed.


Powers and abilities

As with his mentor, he possessed a ring which controlled his powers,
releasing them only when the two rings came into contact. Originally he
wore only one of the rings, which gave him enhanced strength, speed and
resistance to injury and energy generation. But after his mentor died,
he discovered he could wear both rings and release the power by pressing
both rings together himself.


Dyno-Mite Dan

Functional forgeries of the rings were later bought online by a
superhero wannabe who called himself DYNO-MITE DAN (Harris D.
Ledbetter). He appeared only once, after joining the Vigilante's
short-lived new Seven Soldiers of Victory. All members of this group
were slaughtered by the Gods of the Miracle Mesa (the Sheeda).


Other versions

In the Elseworlds miniseries The Golden Age by James Robinson and Paul
Smith, TNT is killed in an apparent accident, and Daniel Dunbar becomes
very depressed. He volunteers for a government experiment (dropping an
atomic bomb on him) which transforms him into the powerful Dynaman, who
possesses vast superhuman strength, durability and the power of flight.
However, it is revealed late in the miniseries that the Ultra-Humanite
removed Dunbar's brain and replaced it with that of Adolf Hitler.
Members of the Justice Society and All-Star Squadron unite to defeat
Dynaman in a colossal battle in Washington, .

