In the  Universe, DETECTIVE CHIMP (alias Bobo T. Chimpanzee) is a
deerstalker-wearing (à la Sherlock Holmes) common chimpanzee with
human-level intelligence who solves crimes, often with the help of the
Bureau of Amplified Animals, a group of intelligent animals that also
includes Rex the Wonder Dog. He was originally created in the final
years of the Golden Age of Comic Books, during the interregnum between
the former and the Silver Age of Comic Books.

After his initial appearance in Adventures of Rex the Wonder Dog he
continued to appear in that title as a backup feature until 1959, at
which point he faded into obscurity. Several decades after his last
appearance, Detective Chimp appeared in several cameos, namely in a 1981
story, "Whatever Happened to Rex the Wonder Dog" ( Presents
#35) and later in a brief cameo with Sam Simeon in Gorilla City during
1985's Crisis on Infinite Earths. Following these appearances, Bobo
started appearing in  titles with some regularity, appearing in issues
of Green Lantern, The Flash, and other titles. This eventually led
to prominent roles in the 2005 Day of Vengeance miniseries and
subsequently as a regular in its spin-off series Shadowpact, through
the latter's last issue, #25. The character still appears as a
guest-star in  titles.


Fictional character biography

When first introduced, the Detective Chimp was a simple, although
intelligent, trained chimpanzee, who acted as a "helping mascot" for the
local sheriff, after helping him to solve the murder of his chimpanzee
trainer, Fred Thorpe. He could not speak, but could understand humans
and make himself understood. Bobo, a smoker, is a member of Mensa, and
had a long-standing partnership with four other detectives as the
Croatoan Society. One of the other former members of the Society was the
detective/superhero Ralph Dibny.

The Chimp's origin has been revamped and elaborated on several times
since his initial Silver Age appearances. 1989's Secret Origins (v2)
#40 credited the experimentation of a microscopic alien race with Bobo's
intelligence. This origin has since been retconned, notably in the Day
of Vengeance six part limited series. In the latter it was shown that
Bobo was captured in Equatorial Africa in 1953 by Fred Thorpe, who
sought to train him for his carnival act: "Bobo the Detective Chimp".
For the act, the Detective Chimp was trained to answer some
detective-related questions using a combination of signals and rewards,
giving the illusion that he could "discover the deepest secrets of the
public". Bobo formed a strong bond with Thorpe because Thorpe took care
of him, and gave him a simpler life than in the jungle. The success of
the act lasted until a trip to Florida, at which time Rex, the Wonder
Dog, took him to the Fountain of Youth, where he gained the ability to
speak to all living creatures, even humans, in their own language, as
well as eternal youth. Rex's and Bobo's journey to the Fountain of Youth
was originally depicted in the aforementioned  Presents #35,
July 1981. The intelligence Bobo gained put a damper on the success
of the sideshow act, and in at least one instance, he decided that a
woman had in fact murdered her sister, and shared his insights with the
local police.

At some point after this, Bobo was employed by the Bureau of Amplified
Animals. It is not known how he left, or if the Bureau still exists.

After the death of Fred Thorpe, he began to work by himself. Initially
he did quite well, as a chimp detective was seen as a novelty. During
this successful period he was visited by another detective, John Jones
(actually the Martian Manhunter, during the JLApe crisis), who thought
Bobo's agency seemed to be doing better than his own.

However, as an ape, without civil rights and being unable to stand as a
juridical person, he couldn't enforce unpaid bills. When the public
began to forget him, he became an alcoholic, never leaving the
other-dimensional Oblivion Bar (which changed management twice during
his time there), until the establishment was acquired by Jim Rook.

Shadowpact

[Detective Chimp in modern times. A panel from Day of Vengeance#1
(June 2006), art by Justiniano.|150px|left|thumb] When the Spectre
attempted to destroy all magic and began killing wizards, Detective
Chimp, while still mostly drunk, coerced a group of mystical characters
gathered from the Oblivion Bar into battling the Spectre. This led to
the formation of the group Shadowpact.

Although lacking superhuman powers, Detective Chimp exhibited not only
fine detective skills but also the genius of a true tactician.
Benefiting from the counsel of the Phantom Stranger (at the time
transformed into a mouse), he devised a plan to use the powers of Black
Alice and Nightshade to confront the combined menace of Eclipso and the
Spectre.

Bobo also helped clean up the demonic damage left when the Rock of
Eternity exploded over Gotham City. He captured the sin of "Sloth,"
which had possessed his long-time friend Rex the Wonder Dog. After the
Rock was reformed, the sins re-imprisoned, and all magical influence
cleaned out of Gotham, the dying Doctor Fate gave Detective Chimp the
powerful Helmet of Fate. After finding it did not fit him, Detective
Chimp convinced Captain  to throw it to Earth, to let fate choose
its next bearer.

When the helmet of Doctor Fate returned to Earth, Detective Chimp for a
brief time bonded with it, granting him additional powers that he used
to assist the Gotham City police in apprehending the villain Trickster.
After struggling against the temptation of the helmet, Bobo sent it on
to another journey.

Recently, it has been shown that Bobo occasionally assists Batman in his
cases by way of a chat room where they swap theories. The Riddler is
also known to chat with them, but he is unaware of the other two's
identities.

The New 52

In The New 52 (a reboot of the  universe), Detective Chimp
has been mentioned by Ambush Bug in the Channel 52 feature sections. He
later appears in aiding the Justice League United team rescue Adam
Strange from the Zeta Beam.


Powers and abilities

Detective Chimp possesses no unusual physical abilities, save the level
of agility and physical strength that comes with being a chimpanzee with
human knowledge of movement and tools. He is capable of conversing with
all animals, regardless of origin, in their own language, including all
spoken and written human languages. He is also one of the most highly
skilled investigators in the world, with detective skills rivaling those
of Ralph Dibny or Batman. Bobo has an Intelligence Quotient estimated to
be higher than 98 percent of the adult (human) population, as evidenced
by his Mensa membership. For a brief time, Detective Chimp also had
additional sense-expanding powers granted him by the helmet of Doctor
Fate.

Because a chimpanzee's muscles are much denser than a human's, Detective
Chimp is unable to swim.


True name

"Bobo" is not his real name, which he won't share. It is revealed by
the Phantom Stranger (via narration) to be "mostly an unpronounceable
screech and three grunts," which translates as "Magnificent Finder of
Tasty Grubs."


Other versions

Tangeant: Superman's Reign

In Tangent: Superman's Reign, the Earth-9 version of Detective Chimp
is revealed to be the screen name of a human hacker named Guy Gardner.

 One Million

In  One Million, the far future version of Detective Chimp is one of
the heroes of the Gorilla Galaxy, and wears a costume similar to
Batman's.

Injustice Gods Amongst Us

Detective Chimp plays a key role in the opening issues of Year Three.
John Constantine tracks down 'the world's greatest detective' - normally
the moniker applied to Batman - to assist in defeating a fascistic
incarnation of Superman.


In other media

Television

-   Detective Chimp appears in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold
    episode "The Golden Age of Justice" voiced by Kevin Michael
    Richardson. Unlike the comic book version who speaks with a Boston
    accent, this version of Detective Chimp speaks in a pronounced
    English dialect. In the teaser, Batman and the seemingly animal-like
    chimp try to figure out who stole the Golden Skull. The thief is
    revealed to be False-Face. After False-Face is defeated, Detective
    Chimp surprises the people watching by revealing he could talk by
    telling Batman "Don't patronize me, 'old chum'". He appears again in
    "Gorillas in Our Midst", helping Batman stop Gorilla Grodd when he
    replaces Gotham City's human population with Gorillas. During the
    adventure, he expresses romantic interest in the super-heroine Vixen
    despite her different species. In this episode, the word "ape" is
    used to indicate something besides gorillas which does not include
    chimps or humans in spite of both being a form of ape.
-   Detective Chimp makes a cameo appearance in the Teen Titans Go!_
    episode "You're Fired!" voiced by Scott Menville. He is the third
    character to audition as Beast Boy's replacement, but is rejected
    the moment he introduces himself.

Video games

-   Detective Chimp appears as a playable character in Lego Batman 3:
    Beyond Gotham, voiced by Dee Bradley Baker.

Toys

-   Detective Chimp was the 69th issue in the  Super Hero
    Collection.

Miscellaneous

-   Detective Chimp appears in Justice League Unlimited #39, working
    alongside fellow detectives Batman and Elongated Man. In the 
    Animated Universe continuity, Detective Chimp is portrayed as a
    citizen of Gorilla City, but does not actually appear until the end
    of the story as he'd been impersonated by Gorilla Grodd for much of
    the issue.

