DEVLIN O'RYAN, occasionally codenamed REFLEX, is a fictional character
in the  Universe. He became a member of the Legion of Super-Heroes in
the 30th century, during the "Five Years Later" era.


Fictional character biography

Devlin O'Ryan is a native of the planet Xanthu. His mother was the
Xanthu bureau chief of the Daily Planet, and Devlin decided to follow
in her footsteps and become a journalist. Obtaining an internship with
the Interstellar Press, he soon found himself working out of the
Metropolis offices of the Daily Planet, alongside its star reporter
Iris West Allen (the widow of Barry Allen, the 20th century superhero
known as the Flash). Devlin and Iris were the first reporters to expose
the Dominators' covert influence (and effective control) of Earth's
government. His investigation led him to Winath as the Legion of
Super-Heroes was being reformed by Reep Daggle (Chameleon Boy) and Rokk
Krin (Cosmic Boy), and he decided to accompany them.

When the Earth's moon was destroyed by the Dominion's Triple Strike
program, detonating powerspheres all over Earth, Devlin was
bombarded with null radiation. This triggered his dormant Metagene,
granted him the ability to reflect virtually any physical or energy
attack. After the teenage Legionnaires of "Batch SW6" were discovered,
he formed a budding romance with the young Shrinking Violet. However,
Devlin joined the adult Legion, and when the two groups parted ways, so
did the young couple.

Devlin was the primary journalist carrying the story when Earth was
destroyed, in a disaster reminiscent of the destruction of Krypton over
a millennium earlier. Afterward, he remained with the Legion until he
was de-aged into childhood by the time mistress Glorith.


Post-Infinite Crisis

No one named Devlin O'Ryan appears in the Post-Zero Hour or "Threeboot"
versions of the Legion. However, the events of the Infinite Crisis
miniseries have restored a close analogue of the Pre-Crisis Legion to
continuity, as seen in "The Lightning Saga" story arc in Justice League
of America and Justice Society of America, and in the "Superman and
the Legion of Super-Heroes" story arc in Action Comics. Devlin was
seen briefly when multiple versions of the Legion battled
Superboy-Prime, the Time Trapper and the Legion of Super-Villains.

