DHARMA is a fictional comic book character distributed by  and
is the leader of the Shadow Cabinet. An original character from
Milestone Comics, he first appeared in Hardware #11 (January 1993),
and was created by Dwayne McDuffie, Robert L. Washington III, and Denys
Cowan.


Fictional character biography

Milestone Universe

Dharma, otherwise known as Harry Chawney, has the power to perceive the
past and future of any object he touches. He has perceived countless
apocalypses, and is ruthless in acting to prevent them, whatever the
cost. In theory, he knows the ultimate consequences of whatever action
he sends his operatives to perform; however, the impossibility of
considering every factor has led to his fear that he may be causing the
very disasters he is trying to prevent - in the words of one agent,
"What about the man who died? His future could have been important too.
Did you check?", to which he was forced to respond "I can't think about
that right now". 

The Cabinet makes an appearance in Blood Syndicate #20 when Dharma
fires Oro, who has been a Syndicate associate, police officer, and a
Shadow Cabinet operative. He is allowed to keep his costume and receives
one month severance pay deposited directly into his bank account. Dharma
even gives Oro advice to "Take the left" as Oro teleports out.

The teleportation technology is maintained by powerful telekinetic and
engineer Thomas Hague, better known as "Mechanic." Another notable
employee is Payback, a spy for the independent superhero Icon. Icon also
has evidence that Dharma had been involved in the 'Big Bang', a riot
which, due to altered tear gas, ended with dozens of fatalities and
superpowers granted to the survivors.

He would not treat further departures from the Cabinet as gracefully as
Oro's. When Cabinet operatives Iota, Donner, and Blitzen leave to form
the unofficial team Heroes, Dharma sends a Cabinet attack squad. This
group is led by Iron Butterfly.

Milestone Forever

The truth of Dharma's action are shown. It is revealed that he was
responsible for the Big Bang, hoping to create powerful beings capable
of preventing a fast approaching apocalypse whose cause he could not
determine. When his last two prospects (Hardware and Static), fail to
meet his expectations, he turns to the only course he believes is left
open to him....awakening and harnessing the powers of the god-like being
called Rift. However, the very act of absorbing the being's powers
causes widespread destruction to the universe, destroying the
Dakotaverse. Thus the cause of the apocalypse he foresaw was his own
attempts to stop it. However, all is not lost, as his new powers will
allow him the opportunity to bring about his universe's rebirth. The
effects of Darkseid's death during Final Crisis of a neighboring
universe gives the chance to merge the remnants of the Dakotaverse into
the  Universe, retroactively combing their histories, and giving the
Milestone characters the chance to live anew. Officially only Icon,
Superman, and Dharma himself even recall Rift and know the truth of
Milestone's existence. Dharma is currently concentrating on keeping the
worlds merged. This, according to Dharma, could take months or even
years before it is permanent.

Powers and Abilities

Dharma possesses incredibly powerful precognitive abilities When he
touches a personal object, Dharma can see all events that occur in its
past and future. This ability extends as far as the entire Earth itself
or something as small as a bead. Not only can he see an object's future,
he can see his own and his universe's future. This power extends to the
object's past as well. Hence, any place it has been or anything that has
been done to it is clear to Dharma. When he focuses his psychometric on
a certain person he can not only see their future and past but also
understand and therefore manipulate their abilities. Dharma is
completely blind, but compensates by using his powers to guide him.

Dharma has been able to see the beginning of the universe and all that
goes on in the present. However, at a certain point in the future (its
"end"), he sees only destruction of his universe. This blind spot
prevents Dharma from seeing what role he will play or what outcome
happens after the destruction.

After absorbing Rift's powers Dharma gained the ability to alter reality
and bend dimensions. At one point, in the original Milestone world, he
absorbed his sisters known as Plus. This gave him the ability to control
a living energy field that could be used for offensive as well as
defensive purposes. It is unclear whether that power transferred over in
the merge.

