DR. TERRANCE THIRTEEN (his name sometimes became corrupted to the more
common "Terrence"), known simply as DOCTOR THIRTEEN or DR. 13, is a
fictional character in comic books set in the  Universe. The
character's first published appearance is in Star Spangled Comics
#122, (November 1951).


Fictional character biography

Pre-Crisis

Dr. Thirteen is a parapsychologist who investigates reports of possible
supernatural activity with the goal of proving them to be hoaxes. Dr.
Thirteen's stories are set in the  Universe, where many stories
involving the supernatural also are set. He was usually accompanied by
his wife, Maria, sometimes called Marie.

Dr. Thirteen debuted in his own feature within the pages of Star
Spangled Comics, from issue #122 (November, 1951) through issue #130
(July, 1952). The feature then moved to House of Mystery and was
canceled after issue #7.

In his origin story, as presented in Showcase #80, Terrence's [sic--the
spelling varied, but was spelled with an e in the first story] father
tries to hide his ancestry from him, but eventually went into a locked
room showing the history of his ancestors, many of whom were executed
for practicing magic, such as Daniel, who was killed by the ancient
Romans for Diagramming the solar system, and Rebecca, who was executed
during the Salem witch trials when she was actually developing
anesthesia. Terry and his unnamed father enter into a pact to prove that
the supernatural is false by determining things that Mr. Thirteen will
say to Terry by the grandfather clock on the year anniversary of his
death. Mr. Thirteen is then killed in a road accident three months
later. On the first anniversary of his father's death, Terry asks the
questions and gets no response, then remembers that he was supposed to
set the clock before asking the questions. At this point, he hears the
correct responses to the questions. He discovers that these are on a
Gramophone record that was planted by his fiancée, Marie, who also had a
pact with Mr. Thirteen to show Terry that anything that appears
supernatural has a rational explanation.

The character next appeared in Showcase #80 in 1969 as a supporting
character in the Phantom Stranger story and then as a regular character
in the Phantom Stranger series that began later that year. Early
issues featured a few new pages of story and art that framed reprints of
the two characters' old stories. The feature was temporarily replaced
by "The Spawn of Frankenstein" in Phantom Stranger #23-30, in which
Dr. Thirteen appeared blaming Frankenstein's monster for putting his
wife, Maria, in a coma. He made one further appearance in issue #36,
replacing the Black Orchid serial that replaced The Spawn of
Frankenstein. He also had a serial in Ghosts #95-99, 101 and 102. In
three of these issues, he confronted the Spectre. He also appeared in
the 150th issue of House of Secrets alongside his longtime rival, the
Phantom Stranger.

Dr. Thirteen also appeared in Batman #341-342 (November–December 1981)
to research a mystery in the abandoned Wayne Manor involving the
Man-Bat. He reappeared in Gotham City in Batman #354 (December 1982)
to reluctantly aid Rupert Thorne, who believed he was being haunted by
Hugo Strange.

Post-Crisis

In the limited series The Books of Magic, John Constantine explains to
Timothy Hunter that because Dr. Thirteen does not believe, magic and the
supernatural truly do not work for him.

Vertigo Visions

In the Vertigo Comics one-shot Vertigo Visions: Doctor 13 - Do AIs
Dream of Electric Sheep?_, Doctor Terrence Thirteen and his wife Marie
go to marriage counseling, as Marie is becoming increasingly alienated
from Terrence due to his overbearing behavior and the fact that he
refuses to take payment for his services and therefore lives off her
bank account. Doctor Thirteen becomes trapped in a virtual reality and
embroiled in a conflict between benign and malicious artificial
intelligences with the ability to manipulate media and sensory
perceptions on a global scale. At the conclusion of the comic, Thirteen
is seen in a mental institution, having apparently suffered a mental
breakdown during the visit to the marriage counselor and hallucinated
everything, although the AIs are also seen to be real.

Seven Soldiers of Victory

In the first issue of Grant Morrison's Seven Soldiers Zatanna limited
series, Dr. Thirteen is said to have been dating the title character,
believing her to be just a very talented stage magician. After she
attends his book signing, he agrees to go with her to obtain proof that
magic is real. Joined by Ibis the Invincible, his wife Taia, and Swamp
Thing supporting character Timothy Ravenwind, the group journey to many
mystical realms. The purpose is to hunt for an approaching magical
threat. Thirteen and the other three mystics are skeletonized by an
entity called Gwdion. Zatanna blames her lack of preparation for the
mystical journey, along with her addiction to using magic for selfish
purposes.

Tales of the Unexpected

In the eight-issue limited series Tales of the Unexpected, Dr.
Thirteen unites with other characters from canceled series, including
Genius Jones, I...Vampire, Anthro, the Primate Patrol, Infectious
Lass from the Legion of Substitute-Heroes, Captain Fear from a 1970s
feature within the pages of Adventure Comics, and the Haunted Tank in a
story that repeatedly breaks the fourth wall and comments on the
then-current state of  and its continuity. Dr. Thirteen's group
fights the Architects, the four writers who were heavily involved in the
direction of the  Universe titles at the time — Geoff Johns, Grant
Morrison, Greg Rucka, and Mark Waid — to convince them to include them
in the new Universe. The story ends with Thirteen warning his companions
and the readers of a new danger.

Post-Infinite Crisis, Dr. Thirteen lives with his daughter Traci
Thirteen in Doomsbury Mansion, still working as a paranormal
investigator. Traci Thirteen is a sorceress, a fact he finds most
upsetting.

Flashpoint

In the alternate timeline of the Flashpoint event, Doctor Thirteen was
rescued from Paris before its destruction by his daughter, and is a
member of the H.I.V.E., who vote on using nuclear weapons to end the
Atlantean/Amazonian threat in Western Europe. When Traci tries to stop
this, he injects her with a drug and proceeds to start the
countdown. Traci teleports to find help. When she returns to face
her father after without desired help, an apparently possessed Doctor
Thirteen who now uses magic to attack her. During the battle, Traci
teleports herself to Paris, showing her father if the nuclear weapons
are used she will die, along with 118 million people. She becomes badly
injured from an Amazon spear. This snaps Doctor Thirteen out of his
rampage. The two reconcile and Doctor Thirteen uses his remaining magic
to stop the satellite, less than two minutes before it attacks. Traci
then saves him, and it is revealed they have both used up all their
magic.

The New 52

Following the events of Flashpoint, Doctor Thirteen appeared in a
two-part backup story in All-Star Western #11 and #12. In this
rebooted version, he lives in 1880s Gotham City where he is enlisted by
the police to hunt down a paranormal highwayman. Doctor Thirteen's
descendant (also named Dr. Terrence Thirteen) later appears in Phantom
Stranger #2, enlisting the aid of Phantom Stranger to repel the Haunted
Highwayman in present time.


Other versions

Grant Morrison, in Doom Patrol (vol. 2) #54 substituted him in Danny
the Street's dreams with Doctor Occult in a superhero version of The
Trenchcoat Brigade in which Constantine uses "Hellblazer" as a superhero
name. That version of the character was "the Multiple Man" rather than
the Ghost-Breaker, of which his Dr. 8 identity was second most important
to the story.

