DOCTOR FATE (also known as FATE) is a fictional superhero appearing in
American comic books published by . The character has appeared
in various incarnations, with Doctor Fate being the name of several
different individuals in the  Universe who are a succession of
sorcerers. The original version of the character was created by writer
Gardner Fox and artist Howard Sherman, and first appeared in More Fun
Comics #55 (May 1940).


Publication history

More Fun Comics #55 (May 1940) introduced the first Doctor Fate in his
own self-titled six page strip. After a year with no background, his
alter ego and origins were shown in More Fun Comics #67 (May 1941).

Doctor Fate's love interest was known variably as Inza Cramer, Inza
Sanders, and Inza Carmer, which was amended to Inza
Cramer in the Silver Age.

When the Justice Society of America was created for All Star Comics #3
(Winter 1940), Doctor Fate was one of the characters National Comics
used for the joint venture with All-American Publications. He made his
last appearance in the book in issue #21 (Summer 1944), virtually
simultaneously with the end of his own strip in More Fun Comics #98
(July - August 1944).

Aside from the annual JSA/JLA team-ups in Justice League of America,
 featured the original Doctor Fate in other stories through the 1960s
and 1970s, including a two-issue run with Hourman in Showcase #55-56,
two appearances with Superman in World's Finest Comics (#201, Mar.
1971 & #208, Dec. 1971) and  Presents (#23, July 1980); an
appearance with Batman in The Brave and the Bold (#156, Nov. 1979);
and a solo story in 1st Issue Special #9 (Dec. 1975), written by
Martin Pasko and drawn by Walt Simonson.

The character featured in a series of back-up stories running in The
Flash from #306 (Feb. 1982) to #313 (Sept. 1982) written by Cary Bates
and drawn by Keith Giffen, with Pasko taking over as writer in issue
#306, (aided by Steve Gerber from #310 to #313). In 1985, 
collected the back-up stories, a retelling of Doctor Fate's origin by
Paul Levitz, Joe Staton & Michael Nasser originally published in Secret
Origins of Super-Heroes (Jan. 1978) ( Special Series #10 in the
indicia), the Pasko/Simonson story from 1st Issue Special #9, and a
Doctor Fate tale from More Fun Comics #56 (June 1940), in a
three-issue limited series titled The Immortal Doctor Fate.

Following 1985's Crisis on Infinite Earths, Doctor Fate briefly joined
the Justice League. A Doctor Fate limited series was released soon
afterwards, which changed the character's secret identity.  began
a Doctor Fate ongoing series by J.M. DeMatteis and Shawn McManus in
winter of 1988. William Messner-Loebs became the series’ writer with
issue #25. When the series ended with issue #41,  replaced the
existing Doctor Fate with a new character, Jared Stevens. Stevens was
introduced in a self-titled series called Fate, launched in the wake
of Zero Hour in 1994. which was cancelled after 23 issues in
September 1996. The character then starred in The Book of Fate, which
ran from February 1997 to January 1998 for twelve issues as part of 's
"Weirdoverse" imprint.

In 1999, the revival of the Justice Society in JSA allowed the
character to be reworked again. In addition to appearing in
JSA,  published a self-titled, five-issue limited series in
2003. The character was killed in the Day of Vengeance limited
series in 2005 as part of the lead in to the 2005 company-wide event
story, Infinite Crisis.

In early 2007,  published a bi-weekly run of one-shots depicting the
search for a new Doctor Fate. These were intended to be followed by
a new Doctor Fate ongoing series in April 2007, written by Steve
Gerber and illustrated by Paul Gulacy, featuring the new Doctor
Fate. However, the series was delayed due to extended production
and creative difficulties. Steve Gerber said in an interview for
Newsarama that the story intended for the first arc of the Doctor Fate
ongoing series had been reworked to serve as the main story for
Countdown to Mystery, a dual-feature eight issue mini-series with
Eclipso as the second feature. The first issue of Countdown to
Mystery, with art by Justiniano and Walden Wong rather than Gulacy, was
released in November 2007. Due to Steve Gerber's death, the seventh
issue was written by Adam Beechen using Gerber's notes. The final issue
was written by Beechen, Gail Simone, Mark Waid, and Mark Evanier, who
each wrote a different ending to the story.

The character then appeared in the Reign in Hell mini-series and
in Justice Society of America (vol. 3) #30, featuring in the book
until its cancellation with #54 in August 2011.

Following the events of the Flashpoint mini-series in 2011, 's
continuity was rebooted. As part of "The New 52", a new Doctor Fate
named Khalid Ben-Hassin was created by writer James Robinson and
artist Brett Booth, featuring in the Earth 2 ongoing series from #9
(Feb. 2013) onwards.

After the Convergence event,  began focusing more on story and
diversity along with launching 24 new titles. One of these titles is a
new Doctor Fate series from writer Paul Levitz and artist Sonny Liew,
headlined by the latest Doctor Fate, Khalid Nassour.


Fictional character biographies

Kent Nelson

[Cover to More Fun Comics #61 (Nov. 1940), showing Kent Nelson as
Doctor Fate. Cover art by Howard Sherman.] In 1920, archaeologist Sven
Nelson and his son Kent go on an expedition to the Valley of Ur. While
exploring a temple discovered by his father, Kent opens the tomb of Nabu
the Wise and revives him from suspended animation, accidentally
releasing a poisonous gas which kills Sven. Nabu takes pity on Kent and
teaches him the skills of a sorcerer over the next twenty years before
giving him a mystical helmet, amulet & cloak. In 1940, Kent meets Inza
Cramer and Wotan in Alexandria, Egypt on his way back to America.
After arriving back in the United States, Kent begins a career fighting
crime and supernatural evil as the sorcerer and superhero Doctor Fate
and sets up a base in a tower in Salem, Massachusetts.

Kent helps co-found the Justice Society of America in 1940.

Kent switches to a half helmet in 1941 due to Nabu occasionally
possessing him through the helmet. Kent becomes a physician in
1942. Kent later enlists in the U.S. Army and serves as a
Paratrooper during World War II. He resigns from the JSA in 1944 and
becomes an archaeologist.

Kent returns to crimefighting when the Justice Society reforms, again
using the original helmet. Sometime later, Kent co-founds a new
Justice League. Soon after, Kent and Inza pass away from old age
when the magic they use to stay young fails. During the Blackest
Night event, Kent is briefly resurrected as a member of the Black
Lantern Corps.

Eric and Linda Strauss

[Justice League America #31 (Oct. 1989): Linda Strauss as Doctor Fate.
Cover art by Adam Hughes.]

After Kent's death, Nabu chooses Eric Strauss and his stepmother Linda
to be the next Doctor Fate, with Eric and Linda having to merge into one
being in order to become Fate. Nabu goes on to possess Kent's corpse
in order to personally advise them. The three of them are soon
joined by a friendly demon called Petey and lawyer Jack C. Small.

Eric is killed on Apokolips during a battle with Desaad, forcing Linda
to become Doctor Fate on her own. Linda is killed soon afterwards by
the Lords of Chaos. Eric and Linda's souls are reincarnated in the
bodies of Eugene and Wendy DiBellia while Nabu reincarnates in Eugene
and Wendy's unborn child.

Inza Nelson

Kent and Inza, whose souls have been inhabiting a fantasy world within
the amulet, are resurrected in younger bodies, but only Inza can
become Doctor Fate. As Doctor Fate, Inza becomes more proactive and
reckless in the use of her powers, which leads to her temporary
separation from Kent.

The Nelsons learn T'Giian, a Lord of Chaos, has possessed the helmet.
This provides Inza with magic derived from Chaos instead of Order, which
is why Kent and Inza can't merge to become Doctor Fate. Kent
reunites with Inza and helps her defeat T'Giian. Inza then discovers
her new powers come from people of Earth rather than the magic of Order
and Chaos. The Nelsons start merging as the male Doctor Fate
again, but the two of them can become separate Doctor Fates if needed.
When operating as separate Doctor Fates, Inza wears the helmet and
Kent's original costume while Kent wears the half helmet and costume he
used in the late 1940s.

Sometime later, the Nelsons and the JSA face the supervillain Extant
during Parallax's attempt to change the history of the universe. Extant
uses his time manipulation powers to rapidly age Kent and Inza to their
proper physical ages. Extant also scatters the helmet, amulet & cloak.
The aged and depowered Nelsons then retire.

[Fate #1 (Nov. 1994) featuring Jared Stevens. Cover art by Anthony
Williams and Andy Lanning.]

Jared Stevens

After retiring, the Nelsons hire smuggler Jared Stevens to recover the
helmet, amulet & cloak from an Egyptian tomb. When the Nelsons try to
collect the artifacts, they are murdered by two demons. During the
battle, Jared attempts to use the amulet as a weapon, which then
explodes and imbues him with various magical abilities and a red
ankh-shaped scar over his right eye. Jared's injuries force him to use
the cloak as a wrap for his right arm and to melt the helmet into a set
of ankh-shaped darts and a dagger for use as weapons. After defeating
the demons, Jared is contacted by Nabu, who attempts to make Jared the
new Doctor Fate. Jared refuses and escapes, becoming a demon hunter
using the alias "Fate". During his battles, he teams up with the
supernaturally powered team of fugitives Scare Tactics, the demon
Etrigan and other forces to combat threats from the realm of Gemworld.

Jared is later murdered by Mordru, who attempts to kill all the agents
of Chaos and Order and claim Fate’s artifacts for himself. Jared's
equipment reverts to its original forms and returns to the Tower of Fate
upon his death.

Hector Hall

After Jared's murder, the mantle of Doctor Fate, along with a restored
helmet, amulet & cloak, is passed to a reincarnated Hector Hall. The
Justice Society is reformed to protect the newly reborn Hector.
Hector's new body is the biological son of Hawk and Dove, who are agents
of Chaos and Order respectively, which makes Hector an agent of balance
instead of one side or the other.

When the Spectre goes on a quest to extinguish magic, he banishes Hector
and his wife to a snowy mountain landscape for all eternity.

Kent V. Nelson

[Nabu confronts Mordru without the use of a host body in a panel from
JSA #80 (Feb. 2006). Art by Don Kramer.] When the JSA looks for
Hector, they find the helmet, amulet & cloak. Sand dons the helmet to
speak with Nabu. At the same moment, Mordru appears and removes the
helmet from Sand, allowing Nabu to manifest through the helmet without
needing a host body. Nabu defeats Mordru and the JSA offers him
membership, which Nabu declines. Sensing his demise, Nabu gives the
helmet to Detective Chimp to pass on to a new wearer, telling him it
would still have certain abilities without Nabu's spirit inside. Nabu is
then killed by the Spectre.

When Detective Chimp finds the helmet will not fit him, he asks Captain
 to throw the helmet into space, allowing the helmet to find its
new owner. As it travels across the universe, the helmet warps itself to
resemble Kent Nelson's half helmet from the 1940s and falls back to
Earth.

[Promotional artwork for Countdown to Mystery #1 (Nov. 2007),
featuring Kent V. Nelson as Doctor Fate. Cover art by Justiniano.]

The helmet later crosses paths again with Detective Chimp, Ibis the
Invincible, Sargon the Sorcerer, Black Alice, and
Zauriel before it reaches Doctor Kent V. Nelson, Kent Nelson's
grandnephew, who becomes the new Doctor Fate after finding the helmet in
a dumpster. When Nelson first wears the helmet, it reverts to its
original form and clothes him in a new version of Doctor Fate's original
costume.

After fighting off the demon Nergal, Kent uses the helmet’s magic for
gambling. He later meets Maddy, an occult bookstore owner, and Inza Fox,
a comic book writer, who is later killed after turning into water. When
Kent turns to alcohol to cope with Inza's death, he gives the helmet to
Maddy. The two are captured by Nergal, but escape when Kent overcomes
his depression, restoring Inza to life in the process.

Kent helps a group of magic-using heroes escape from Hell and joins
the Justice Society. Kent remains with the team after it splits into
two groups. He is briefly possessed by Mordru before leaving Earth to
hone his spellcasting abilities. Kent later returns to help the team
with various problems.

Khalid Ben-Hassin

The Earth-2 incarnation of Doctor Fate is an Egyptian man named Khalid
Ben-Hassin. Khalid accompanies archaeologist Kendra Saunders while she
is exploring a pyramid in Egypt and discovers the Helm of Nabu, but is
reluctant to wear it due to Nabu's spirit affecting his thoughts and
sanity. After teaming up with other "Wonders" (superpowered heroes),
Khalid fights the villain Wotan and discovers the Tower of Fate, Nabu's
extradimensional base of operations, and assumes the identity of Dr.
Fate. Khalid becomes traumatized and psychologically damaged after he is
mercilessly attacked by a brainwashed Superman.

Khalid Nassour

In June 2015, a Doctor Fate series was launched, starring the Earth-0
incarnation of the character, an Egyptian-American med student named
Khalid Nassour.


Powers and abilities

Doctor Fate possesses various magical powers such as
spellcasting, flight, super-strength,
invulnerability, telekinesis, telepathy, fire
manipulation and lightning manipulation. However, Fate
is unable to counteract spells that have already been cast and in
effect. Fate's magic manifests in the shape of Egyptian hieroglyphs
such as an ankh.


Other versions

Pre-Crisis

Doctor Chaos (Earth-1)

[Doctor Chaos. Art by Kurt Schaffenberger] In the Earth-1 universe,
Professor Lewis Lang and his assistant Burt Belker discover a helmet in
the Valley of Ur in Mesopotamia that is identical to the helmet on
Earth-2 except for its blue color. This helmet contains a Lord of Chaos
that possesses Burt and turns him into the sorcerer Doctor Chaos, whose
costume is identical to Doctor Fate's except for a reversed color
scheme. Superboy confronts Doctor Chaos and removes the helmet from
Burt, jettisoning it into space.

Post-Crisis

Books of Magic

While Timothy Hunter is being guided through the world of magic by the
Phantom Stranger, the two of them observe Kent, though he is unaware of
their presence. Sometime later, Mister E shows Hunter a future
version of the helmet that resembles a human skull and kills any of its
worshippers who wear it. The helmet has given up on life itself and the
war between Order & Chaos. Mister E revealed that in the past, he
attempted to kill Doctor Fate and destroy the helmet but was stopped by
the Justice League.

Earth-2

After Mister Mind "eats" aspects of the fifty-two identical realities
that make up the new Multiverse, one of them, designated Earth-2, takes
on visual aspects similar to the pre-Crisis Earth-Two, such as the
Justice Society of America being this world's premier
superteam.

This version of Doctor Fate (based upon the Kent Nelson version of the
character) along with the Spectre, suspects something awry with Power
Girl's mysterious reappearance.

Earth-22 (Kingdom Come)

The Kingdom Come universe features a version of Nabu who is able to
channel his consciousness through the helmet and cloak without the need
for a host body. This version of Fate sides with Batman's group and is
amongst the survivors at the end of the final battle.

Doctor Strangefate

Doctor Strangefate is a sorcerer from the Amalgam Comics universe; he is
an amalgamation of Doctor Fate and 's Doctor Strange and
Charles Xavier.

Flashpoint

In the alternate timeline of the Flashpoint event, Kent Nelson works
as a fortune teller in Haley's Circus. Kent tells his co-worker, trapeze
artist Boston Brand, of his vision of Dick Grayson's death. The
circus is then attacked by Amazons who are looking to steal the helmet.
Kent is impaled and killed by an Amazon before the circus workers escape
with the help of Resistance member Vertigo. With Boston's help,
Dick escapes the Amazons' slaughter of the other circus workers and
meets up with the Resistance, using the helmet as the new Doctor
Fate.

Earth-20

An alternate version of Doctor Fate, known as Doc Fate, is shown to
exist on the pulp fiction-influenced world of Earth-20. Doc
Fate is an African-American gunslinger and occultist named Kent Nelson
who is based in a windowless Manhattan skyscraper. Doc Fate leads a team
of adventurers known as the Society of Super-Heroes, which consists of
the Immortal Man, the Mighty Atom, Lady Blackhawk and the Green Lantern
Abin Sur.


In other media

Television

-    animated universe:
    -   The Kent Nelson version of Doctor Fate appears in the Superman:
        The Animated Series episode "The Hand of Fate", with Kent
        voiced by George Del Hoyo and Inza voiced by Jennifer Lien.
    -   Doctor Fate and Inza appear in the Justice League episode "The
        Terror Beyond", with Kent voiced by Oded Fehr and Inza voiced by
        Jennifer Hale.
    -   Oded Fehr and Jennifer Hale reprised their roles as Doctor Fate
        and Inza in Justice League Unlimited.
        -   The Earth of this Doctor Fate is Earth-12 in the 
            Multiverse.
-   Doctor Fate appears in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold episodes
    "The Eyes of Despero!", "The Fate of Equinox", and "Crisis: 22,300
    Miles Above Earth", voiced by Greg Ellis. A younger version of
    Doctor Fate also appears in a small cameo role in "The Siege of
    Starro" Part 1.
    -   The Earth of this Doctor Fate is Earth-23 within the 
        Multiverse.
-   [Brent Stait as Doctor Fate on Smallville.] Actor Brent Stait
    played Kent Nelson/Doctor Fate in the Smallville two-part episode
    "Absolute Justice", with Erica Carroll as Inza Nelson. The
    Helmet of Nabu reappeared in the season 10 episode "Lazarus".
-   Doctor Fate appears in the Young Justice animated series. He
    first appears in the episode "Denial", with Kent Nelson voiced by
    Edward Asner and Nabu voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson. He
    subsequently appears in the episodes "Revelation", "Misplaced",
    and "Agendas". Unlike the comics, Nabu is much more possessive of
    his host, going so far as to refuse to remove the helmet.
    Notably, Dr. Fate's helmet is transferred four times during the
    series: first to Wally West in "Denial", then Aqualad
    in "Revelation". In both instances, the spirit of Kent Nelson
    convinces Nabu to release the host. However, in "Misplaced", after
    Zatanna dons the helmet to defeat Klarion the Witch Boy, Nabu
    refuses to release her due to the belief that the world needs Fate
    to protect against Chaos until Zatara offers to become Nabu's next
    host, which allows for Zatanna's release.
    -   The Earth of this Doctor Fate is Earth-16 within the 
        Multiverse.
-   Doctor Fate appears in Mad episodes 22 and 46, voiced by Kevin
    Shinick.
-   Doctor Fate will appear in a series of animated shorts as part of
    the  Nation block on Cartoon Network.
-   Doctor Fate's helmet made a brief appearance in the pilot episode of
    Constantine.

Film

-   Doctor Fate appears as a member of the JSA in the opening credits of
    Justice League: The New Frontier.
-   An evil Doctor Fate from a parallel Earth appears briefly in
    Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths. He is seen as part of
    Superwoman's group of underlings.

Video games

-   Doctor Fate appears in  Universe Online. In the DLC "Hand of
    Fate", Doctor Fate and Felix Faust became playable avatars in PVP
    Legends. The DLC also added new multiplayer missions, called
    Operations, which involve Fate and Faust leading teams of player
    heroes and villains.
-   Doctor Fate makes a cameo appearance in Injustice: Gods Among Us.
    His costume appears in The Hall of Justice. He also appears as a
    support card in the IOS App. Doctor Fate is mentioned in Zatanna's
    ending where he and Zatanna combined their magic to create the Tower
    of Fate which served as a stronghold to the Regime's enemies as
    Superman is vulnerable to magic.
-   Doctor Fate appears as a playable character in Lego Batman 3:
    Beyond Gotham, voiced by Liam O'Brien.


Toys

[Justice League Unlimited action figure by Mattel.]

-   Several Doctor Fate action figures have been released, with most of
    them based on the Kent Nelson version of the character.
    -   The first Doctor Fate figure was released in 1985 as part of the
        second wave of Kenner's Super Powers Collection.
    -    Direct released another figure in 2000 as part of the
        Mystics, Mages and Magicians collection.
    -   A third figure was released with the Justice League Unlimited
        series (2004-2006) as a single figure and as part of three-pack
        collections.
    -    Direct released a fourth figure in December 2007 as part of
        its second wave of : The New Frontier action figures.
    -   Two Doctor Fate figures were released in April 2009 as part of
        the  Universe Classics toyline: a Classic Kent Nelson
        version with regular yellow armor, and a "Chase" variant Modern
        Hector Hall version with gold accent armor and helm.
    -   The Batman: The Brave and the Bold toyline included a "Dr.
        Fate versus Wotan" two-pack set released in December 2009.
-   At the 2004 San Diego Comic-Con International,  Direct announced a
    full-size replica of Doctor Fate's helmet and amulet in 2005.
    The helmet was displayed with upcoming items during the February
    2007 Toy Fair, but is still not available for purchase.


Notes

