DOLL MAN is a fictional superhero from the Golden Age of Comics,
originally published by Quality Comics and currently part of the 
Comics universe of characters. Doll Man was created by cartoonist
Will Eisner and first appeared in a four-page story entitled "Meet the
Doll Man" in Feature Comics #27. The issue's December, 1939 cover date
indicates that Doll Man is the first comic book superhero with a
shrinking power. He notably predates the more-famous Ray Palmer and Hank
Pym by two decades.


Quality Comics publication history

The secret identity of Doll Man, "The World's Mightiest Mite," is
research chemist DARREL DANE, who invents a formula that enables him to
shrink to the height of six inches while retaining the full strength of
his normal size. He was probably the first example of a shrinking
superhero, and also one of the few that was unable to change to a height
in between his minimum and maximum sizes (though artists would fail to
keep his scale visually consistent). His first adventure in Feature
Comics #27 involves the rescue of his fiancee, Martha Roberts, from a
blackmailer. He subsequently decides to fight crime and adopts a red and
blue costume sewn by Martha. Years later, somehow Martha's wish to be
able to join him in his small size comes true, and now possessing the
same shrinking powers, she becomes his partner known as "Doll Girl" in
Doll Man #37. He also has the aid of "Elmo the Wonder Dog," a Great
Dane who serves as his occasional steed and rescuer, and the
"Dollplane," which was deceptively presented as a model airplane in his
study when not in use. In his adventures published during World War II,
Doll Man was also frequently depicted riding a bald eagle.

The covers of Doll Man's comics frequently portrayed him tied in ropes
or other bindings, in situations ranging from being tied
crucifixion-style to a running sink faucet, to being hogtied to the
trigger and barrel of a handgun. The persistence of this male bondage
motif in Doll Man comics among others can be contrasted with other comic
books which historically portrayed women in positions of vulnerability
and submission.

Doll Man was the lead feature of the anthology series Feature Comics
through #139 (October, 1949), with Eisner writing the early stories
under the pen name "William Erwin Maxwell", and art contributed first by
Lou Fine, and later by Reed Crandall. Doll Man's own self-titled series
ran from 1941 until 1953, for forty-seven issues. After the cancellation
of Doll Man, original stories involving the character were not
published again for two decades.


Doll Man in 

Darrel Dane

After Quality Comics went out of business in 1956,  acquired their
superhero characters. Doll Man and several other former Quality
properties were re-launched in Justice League of America #107
(October, 1973) as the Freedom Fighters. As was done with many other
characters  had acquired from other publishers or that were holdovers
from Golden Age titles, the Freedom Fighters were located on a parallel
world, one called Earth-X where Nazi Germany had won World War II. The
team were featured in their own series for fifteen issues (1976–1978),
in which the team temporarily leaves Earth-X for "Earth-1" (where most
 titles were set). Doll Man was an occasional guest star in All-Star
Squadron, a superhero team title that was set on "Earth-2", the locale
for 's WWII-era superheroes, at a time prior to when he and the other
Freedom Fighters are supposed to have left for Earth-X. Doll Man then
appeared with the rest of 's entire cast of superheroes in Crisis on
Infinite Earths, a story that was intended to eliminate the similarly
confusing histories that  had attached to its characters by
retroactively merging the various parallel worlds into one. This erased
Doll Man's Earth-X days, and merged the character's All-Star Squadron
and Freedom Fighter histories so that he is primarily a member of the
Squadron, of which the Freedom Fighters are merely a splinter group.

Until the relaunch of the Freedom Fighters characters in 2006, Doll Man
was little used by  except for the retelling of his origin from
Feature Comics #27 in Secret Origins #8 (November, 1986). According
to Uncle Sam and the Freedom Fighters #5 (January, 2007), Darrel Dane
is currently alive and confined to an unnamed mental institution.

In Uncle Sam and the Freedom Fighters v2 #3 (Nov 2007) Dane (whose
given name is given as "Darryl" or "Darrel") appears as the leader of a
subersive group of doll-sized soldiers. He reveals that the years spent
at compressed size have damaged his mind, leaving him mentally unstable.

Powers and abilities

By willing himself to do so, Doll Man can shrink to a height of six
inches and a proportionate weight, or return to his normal size and
weight. At his six-inch height Doll Man retains the strength of a
normal-size man, and he is a superb athlete and hand-to-hand combatant.
In recent years Doll Man has developed psionic powers enabling him to
levitate objects or destroy them with a mental blast. Doll Man has
apparently aged little or not at all over the decades, perhaps due to
the mystic presence of Uncle Sam in the Freedom Fighters. Doll Man wears
a special costume that changes size as he does.

Lester Colt

[Lester Colt as Doll Man in Uncle Sam and the Freedom Fighters #1.] A
new Doll Man, alias "Lester Colt," was introduced in Crisis Aftermath:
The Battle for Blüdhaven, a mini-series published by  in 2006.

Lester Colt is a famous U.S. special operator, holding a B.A. in
international politics and advanced degrees in the sciences. He is an
“Operational Management and Strategic Advisor” to S.H.A.D.E. Colt seems
to be highly trained in the martial arts, as well as being a very
capable battlefield leader. Lester has a series of action figures named
in his honor. However, he follows an "ends justifies the means" policy
in his mission, and in Uncle Sam and the Freedom Fighters #1 is shown
cold-bloodedly killing a drug dealer in front of the man's young son at
the boy's birthday party (he had infiltrated the drug dealer's home
disguised as one of his own action figures). This action earns him a
severe rebuke from the revived Uncle Sam in later issues when he defects
from S.H.A.D.E. and joins the new Freedom Fighters.

Colt is a highly decorated “old soldier,” and his personal decorations
include the Legion of Merit, six Silver Stars for gallantry, fourteen
Bronze Stars for Valor, and seventeen Purple Hearts.

Colt is romantically involved with scientist and former S.H.A.D.E.
employee, Emma Glenn. Eager to contribute to his country in something
other than war, Lester agreed to an experiment created by Emma's father,
which reduced him to his present height. A S.H.A.D.E. squad,
masquerading as a terrorist group, killed Emma's father and destroyed
the lab. Now stuck at a permanent height of six inches tall, Colt
attempted to distance himself from Glenn, hoping to spare her the pain
of a miniaturized boyfriend. Despite this, there are still strong
feelings between the two and they are learning to cope with their new
situation. This is aided by trips to The Heartland, the current Freedom
Fighters' extradimensional home base, where Colt is mystically restored
to full height for brief periods.

In the new Freedom Fighters series (2007-8), Lester undergoes a
procedure with several other shrunken people, including Darrel Dane, to
be returned to normal size. However, the experiment goes horribly wrong,
and the group are fused together in a human-sized monstrosity. Lester is
eventually freed and returned to his normal size.

Dane Maxwell

In May 2012,  announced on its website the release of a new
comic book miniseries, Phantom Lady and Doll Man,_ featuring completely
new versions of the characters, with no relation to their Freedom
Fighter predecessors other than the character names. These were part of
the "Second Wave" of its continuity reboot and entire-line relaunch,
"The New 52," begun in September 2011 following on from the Flashpoint
limited series.

The new Doll Man is Dane Maxwell, a gifted inventor who operates out of
an ad hoc laboratory in a junkyard. He is a friend and frequent romantic
partner of the new Phantom Lady, Jennifer Knight, whose crime-fighting
equipment he invents and repairs. When his lab is invaded by criminals,
Maxwell is locked in an experimental chamber he invented and permanently
shrunk to the size of an action figure. He creates a jetpack to aid his
mobility and becomes Phantom Lady's crime-fighting partner Doll Man. The
existence of the previous Doll Men in current  continuity has
not been confirmed.


Other versions

-   A version of Doll Man and Doll Girl about whom little has been
    revealed briefly appeared in Titans Secret Files #2.
-    has another unrelated character called Doll Man, a non-powered
    criminal who encounters Batgirl.
-   A super-villain called "Dollman" made a one-shot appearance in the
    1968 Filmation cartoon series featuring Batman and Robin. He was,
    however, more reminiscent of the Puppet Master (a Golden Age Bat-foe
    from Detective Comics v.1/#212).

52

In the final issue of 52, a new Multiverse is revealed, originally
consisting of 52 identical realities. Among the parallel realities shown
is one designated "Earth-10". As a result of Mister Mind "eating"
aspects of this reality, it takes on visual aspects similar to the
pre-Crisis Earth-X, including the Quality characters. The names of the
characters and the team are not mentioned in the panel in which they
appear, but a character visually similar to the Darrel Dane Doll Man
appears.

Based on comments by Grant Morrison, this alternate universe is not the
pre-Crisis Earth-X.


In other media

Television

-   The Darrel Dane version of Doll Man appears in the Batman: The
    Brave and the Bold episode "Cry Freedom Fighters" voiced by
    Jason C. Miller. He is shown as a member of the Freedom Fighters and
    was distrustful toward Plastic Man when he said he had no knowledge
    of patriotism.

