DOLL GIRL is a fictional superhero from the Golden Age of Comics,
originally published by Quality Comics and currently part of the of
characters.

She first appeared as Martha Roberts in Feature Comics #27 (December
1939) and as Doll Girl in Doll Man #37 (December 1951). A new version
later appeared in Titans Secret Files #2 (October 2000).


Fictional character biography

Martha Roberts

MARTHA ROBERTS was the daughter of Professor Roberts, who tutored his
young protégé Darrel Dane in his home laboratory. During the summer of
1939, Martha was being blackmailed by a criminal named Falco over love
letters she had written one of her former college teachers. After
imbibing a concoction, Dane found himself shrunk to the height of six
inches, but with his normal strength intact. Martha sewed him new
clothes to wear, and he began to worry that he might never be able to
regain his normal height.

[Martha Roberts debuts as Doll Girl in Doll Man #37.]

After refusing to pay Falco any more blackmail money, Martha was
kidnapped by Falco and rescued by the "doll man". Finding that through
intense concentration Dane could affect his height, he decided to begin
to fight crime as the Doll Man, often assisted by Martha (who also
became his scientific research assistant).

Several years later, while wishing and concentrating about being able to
shrink down to aid Doll Man, Darrel also was thinking about the same
thing and suddenly, Martha's height and weight dwindled down until she
was on the same scale as Doll Man. She began to team with Doll Man as
Midge, the Doll Girl.

After Quality Comics went out of business in 1956,  acquired
their superhero characters. Doll Man and several other former Quality
properties were re-launched in Justice League of America #107 (October
1973) as the Freedom Fighters. As was done with many other characters 
had acquired from other publishers or that were holdovers from Golden
Age titles, the Freedom Fighters were located on a parallel world, one
called "Earth-X" where Nazi Germany had won World War II. The team were
featured in their own series for fifteen issues (1976–1978), in which
the team temporarily leaves Earth-X for Earth-One (where most  titles
were set). It was revealed during the Freedom Fighters series that
Martha Roberts was now deceased on Earth-X, and Doll Man later
encountered the Earth-One version of Roberts. The Earth-One Martha
Roberts became a supporting character in the series and also
guest-starred in Teen Titans #47 as a reporter.

[The Earth-One Martha Roberts appears in Freedom Fighters #13.]

Following the Crisis on Infinite Earths, a story that was intended to
eliminate the similarly confusing histories that  had attached to its
characters by retroactively merging the various parallel worlds into
one, Doll Girl's Earth-X and Earth-One days were erased and her
histories were merged as one.

In Uncle Sam and the Freedom Fighters #4 (February 2008), it is
revealed that Martha is deceased, killed by cancer. She was unable to
get medical treatment because of her small size.

Titans Secret Files

A version of Doll Man and Doll Girl about whom little has been revealed
briefly appeared in Titans Secret Files #2. This Doll Girl also had a
cameo in Wonder Woman (vol. 2) #174.


Powers and abilities

As Doll Girl, Martha Roberts could shrink through mental concentration
to a height of 5 and 1/2 inches. She retained her normal strength and
was a fair hand-to-hand combatant. She could pilot the small "flying
saucer" that the duo used and was able to use other small vehicles as
needed.


Other versions

In Kingdom Come, the Doll Man/Doll Girl franchise is represented by a
female character named LIVING DOLL, wearing the Doll Girl costume, and
is seen sitting on Superman's shoulder acting as a sort of secretary for
the Justice League. She is the daughter of the original Doll Man and
Doll Girl.

Based on comments by Grant Morrison, this alternate universe is not the
pre-Crisis Earth-X.

