DOLPHIN is a fictional character, a superheroine in the 
universe. Created by writer-artist Jay Scott Pike, she debuted in
Showcase #79 (Dec. 1968).


Fictional character biography

Dolphin was a very young girl when she fell overboard from a cruise ship
(Secret Origins #50) only to be saved from drowning when a mysterious
alien race abducted her to use as an experimental prototype for a
subaquatic humanoid race. In the course of these experiments, she
acquired gills, webbed fingers and toes, shining white hair, superhuman
strength, resilience to deep water pressures, and a slowed aging
process.

When the alien scientists abandoned the experiment, Dolphin escaped
their underwater lab. Oblivious to her former humanity, the feral young
Dolphin scavenged underwater for her livelihood, eventually finding her
trademark short blue-jeans and white shirt inside a sunken ship. She has
always been alone her entire life, constantly swimming and enjoying her
personal freedom. As she grew into young womanhood, she became tired of
living an isolated, lonely life. One day, the crew of an oceanology
vessel saved her from a near lethal encounter with a dolphin-killing
shark and took her aboard their ship to help her.

Over time, the crew of the ship tried to educate and care for the girl
they'd dubbed "Dolphin", but her utter lack of contact with either
humans or Atlanteans had left her mute. Though she grew to understand
spoken language fairly quickly, the act of speech itself remained beyond
her. Then, a young female doctor on the crew had the bright idea to
instruct her in sign language. Finally able to communicate, Dolphin
explained what she could of herself and her story, and expressed her
desire to resume her undersea life. At some point, Dolphin finally
mastered spoken language, (especially when she started having contact
with the superheroic community), but never lost her shyness and
reluctance to speak. She has since been a woman of few words.

Crisis years

Dolphin has stayed mostly on the fringes of the superheroic community,
although she was a member of the Forgotten Heroes until their
dissolution, and fought alongside them during the Crisis on Infinite
Earths.

Meeting Aquaman

During the Zero Hour events, she met Aquaman, and took part in the
battle against Charybdis, a villain interested in the aquatic powers of
the two heroes. When Charybdis, after robbing Aquaman of his telepathic
powers, stuck Aquaman's hand in a pool of water teeming with piranhas,
the normally pacifist Dolphin was forced to shoot the madman. She
carried both the wounded Aquaman and Aqualad back to Atlantis for
medical attention, saving their lives and earning their trust and love.

Afterwards, she became a supporting character in the Aquaman comic book,
and soon won the affections of an Aquaman embittered by the loss of his
hand. Over time, she came out of her shell, and displayed a more
energetic and bubbly, though naive, personality.

In issue #25 of Aquaman volume 5 it was revealed that Kordax, an evil
merman ancestor of Aquaman's, had secretly set Dolphin free from the
lab, and used mind control to prompt her to infiltrate the royal court
and kill Aquaman as the agent of his revenge on the royal house of
Atlantis. The strong-willed Dolphin broke free of his control, and her
romantic involvement with the king of Atlantis grew into love.

Dolphin remained Aquaman's lover until Mera, Aquaman's wife, returned
from her exile in another dimension called the Netherworld. In the same
period, Aqualad, now calling himself Tempest, returned from several
years of extradimensional magic studies with increased powers and
confidence, winning Dolphin's heart with a kiss. Though initially taken
aback, Aquaman blessed the relationship. Eventually, Dolphin became
pregnant by Tempest, and the two were married in an Atlantean ceremony
attended by Tempest's second family, the Titans.

Dolphin gave birth to a son, whom Aquaman named Cerdian (after Cerdia, a
surface nation annexed by Atlantis). The weight of new familial
responsibilities initially strained the relationship between Dolphin and
Tempest. These tensions came to a head when Dolphin demanded Tempest
choose between his duties as a hero and his duties as a father and
husband. Tempest complied, and quit the Titans. When Aquaman was exiled
for his role in the sinking of Atlantis, the family fell under suspicion
as friends of the deposed king. The new sorcerous rulers deemed Dolphin
and her family "collaborationists" and put them under house arrest. This
government is eventually overthrown, and Dolphin and her family have a
brief moment of happiness in a free Atlantis.

When Tempest channels the magic of all Atlantis' sorcerers to undo a
spell that had turned Mera into an air-breather, he is noticed by the
Spectre, who unleashes his full power on Atlantis. The resulting
cataclysmic destruction obliterates Atlantis entirely. Tempest is
missing and presumed dead, but Dolphin, sent away during Atlantis'
destruction, may have survived, along with the young Cerdian.

One Year Later

Further evidence of her survival is given by the ghost of Vulko. Able to
sense the passing of Atlanteans, he claimed never to have felt the
passing of Garth, Dolphin, and Cerdian, so the three are possibly alive.
However, despite having spent months researching his beloved ones,
Garth eventually reveals that he had found the bodies of his wife and
son and reasons that Dolphin and Cerdian may have died during the
evacuation of Atlantis, buried in the rubble while searching shelter.
Slizzath, his necromantic uncle, confirms this version, hinting a
possible return of Dolphin as a Black Lantern 

Blackest Night

In Blackest Night #2, Dolphin, Tula, and Aquaman are raised at Mercy
Reef as Black Lanterns tasked with killing Tempest and Mera. Tula and
Dolphin contend for Tempest's affection and mercilessly taunt him for
being unable to save either of them. At the conclusion of the conflict,
Tempest is killed and subsequently raised as a Black Lantern. Dolphin
appears to battle the Titans. Her body is destroyed by a burst of white
light emanating from Dawn Granger.


Other versions

In the Elseworlds story JLA: The Nail, Dolphin makes an appearance in
Professor Hamilton's Cadmus Labs.

