DONNA TROY is a comic book superheroine published by . She
first appeared in The Brave and the Bold vol. 1 #60 (July 1965), and
was created by Bob Haney and Bruno Premiani. She has been known as the
original WONDER GIRL, DARKSTAR and TROIA.

In May 2011, Donna Troy placed 93rd on IGN's Top 100 Comic Book Heroes
of All Time. She was ranked 19th in Comics Buyer's Guide's "100
Sexiest Women in Comics" list.


Fictional character biography

Introduction

After the shake-up in comics that resulted from the publication of
Seduction of the Innocent,_  searched for a way to portray
Wonder Woman that would in no way imply lesbianism. One of the more
favored approaches was to publish a series of "Impossible Tales" in
which Wonder Woman (Diana) appeared for various reasons side-by-side
with younger versions of herself as well as her mother, creating a
"Wonder Family." A teen-aged version of Wonder Woman was dubbed "Wonder
Girl". By issue #123 of Wonder Woman (July 1961) the label "Impossible
Tale" was not being included on many of these stories. In this
particular issue the character of Wonder Girl is referred to as if she
is an entity entirely different from Diana, a character unto herself.

Wonder Woman's younger sister Wonder Girl made her first
appearance outside the Wonder Woman book in The Brave and the Bold
#60 (July 1965) as a member of a "junior Justice League" called the Teen
Titans, consisting of Robin (Dick Grayson), Kid Flash (Wally West), and
Aqualad (the sidekicks of Batman, The Flash, and Aquaman, respectively).
After next being featured in Showcase #59 (December 1965), the Teen
Titans were spun off into their own series with Teen Titans #1,
cover-dated February 1966.

Writer Marv Wolfman and artist Gil Kane created an origin for Wonder
Girl in Teen Titans #22 (July-Aug. 1969) which introduced the
character's new costume. This story established Wonder Girl's origin
as a non-Amazon orphan, rescued by Wonder Woman from an apartment
building fire. Unable to find any parents or family, Wonder Woman
brought the child to Paradise Island, where she eventually was given
Amazon powers by Paula Von Gunther's Purple Ray. In 1969, Wonder Girl
dons a new, all-red bodysuit-style costume, lets her hair fall loose,
and — since thus far she has been called only Wonder Girl or "Wonder
Chick" by her teammates — adopts the secret identity Donna Troy.

Donna remains with the Teen Titans until the series' cancellation with
issue #43 in February 1973. She is still part of the team when the comic
picks up again with #44 in November 1976. Teen Titans is canceled
again in February 1978 with issue #53, with Donna and the others — no
longer "teens" — going their separate ways.

1980s revival

Marv Wolfman and George Pérez revived the series yet again in 1980 as
The New Teen Titans, with original members Wonder Girl, Robin, and Kid
Flash joined by new heroes. Donna is romantically involved with slightly
older professor Terry Long, but along the way is put under the romantic
spell of Hyperion, one of the Titans of Myth.

Donna's origin is expanded in the January 1984 tale, "Who is Donna
Troy?" Robin investigates the events surrounding the fire from which
his old friend had been rescued as a toddler, discovering that Donna's
birth mother was Dorothy Hinckley, a dying unwed teen who had placed her
for adoption. After Donna's adoptive father Carl Stacey had been killed
in a work-related accident, her adoptive mother Fay Stacey placed her
for adoption again, unable to raise the toddler because of mounting
expenses. However, Donna became victim to a child selling racket, which
ended with the racketeers dying in the fire. With Robin's help, Donna is
reunited with Fay, who had married Hank Evans and given birth to two
additional children, Cindy and Jerry. Donna marries Terry Long in a
huge, lavish ceremony in Tales of the Teen Titans #50 (February 1985).

Post-Crisis

The subsequent Crisis on Infinite Earths miniseries (1985–1986)
rewrote the history of many  characters; Wonder Woman's own
pre-Crisis history was written out of existence, and the character was
reintroduced in Wonder Woman (vol. 2) #1 (February 1987) as a new
arrival from Themyscira (the former Paradise Island). With the character
of Donna tied predominantly to the Titans, her origin was retconned to
fit into the new continuity created by Wonder Woman's relaunch, one
severing her direct ties to the Amazons. In the storyline "Who Is Wonder
Girl?" featured in The New Titans #50-54 (December 1988-March 1989),
the Titans of Myth enlist Donna's aid against the murderous Sparta of
Synriannaq. It is revealed that the Titan Rhea had rescued a young Donna
from a fire; Donna and Sparta had then been part of a group of 12
orphans from around the universe who had been raised on New Cronus by
these Titans as "Titan Seeds," their eventual saviors. The Seeds had
been given superhuman powers, and named after ancient Greek cities.
Called "Troy," Donna (like the others) had eventually been stripped of
her memories of her time with the Titans of Myth, and reintroduced into
humankind to await her destiny; Sparta had retained her memories, and
the knowledge had eventually driven her mad. Killing her fellow Seeds to
"collect" their powers and destroy the Titans of Myth, Sparta is
ultimately defeated by Donna and the only other Seed left alive, Athyns
of Karakkan. In The New Titans #55 (June 1989), Donna changes her
pseudonym from Wonder Girl to TROIA and adopts a new costume
incorporating mystical gifts from the Titans of Myth.

Lord Chaos

During the Titans Hunt storyline, Donna discovers she is pregnant; in
the New Titans Annual #7 (1991), a group calling themselves the Team
Titans appears, intent on killing her. They come from a future in which
Donna's son is born with the full powers of a god and full awareness of
them, which drives him mad. He instantly ages himself, kills his mother,
and becomes a dictator known as Lord Chaos. The Team Titans travel back
to the past to kill Donna before her son can be born. Donna eventually
gives birth to Robert; to prevent him from becoming Lord Chaos, she
sacrifices her powers and becomes a normal human.

Eventually, Donna rethinks her decision and asks the Titans of Myth to
grant her powers again; her request is rejected. She then joins the
Darkstars. During the Zero Hour crisis, her farm in New Jersey is
destroyed and all the Team Titans are wiped out of existence except for
Terra and Mirage. Her marriage in ruins, Donna loses custody of her son
to her now ex-husband Terry. Donna rejoins the New Titans for a time,
with her Darkstar suit giving her the ability to aid them. She dates
Kyle Rayner for a while and retires from the Darkstars, leaving her
powerless. Donna and Kyle break up immediately following the death of
her son, stepdaughter and ex-husband in a car accident.

Magical duplicate

Her post-Crisis origin was updated in the late 1990s. This version had
it that she was originally created by the Amazon sorceress Magala as a
magical duplicate of the young Princess Diana of Themyscira (a nod to
the original Wonder Girl) to be a playmate for Diana, who was previously
the only child on the island. However, Donna was soon kidnapped by the
Dark Angel (a World War II villainess and sworn enemy of Queen
Hippolyta, Diana's mother), who thought the girl was Diana.<ref
name=Byrne'sFolly>Wonder Woman (vol. 2) #131 - #135

Dark Angel cursed Donna to live endless variants of a life characterized
by suffering, with her life being restarted and erased from the world's
memory when Donna was at her lowest. Even Donna would forget her past
lives until the moment at which Dark Angel would arrive to restart her
life, at which point she would immediately recall all of her past
suffering. With the help of Wonder Woman, Hippolyta, and the third Flash
(her former Titans teammate, Wally West), the only people who remembered
the previous version, Donna was restored. Somehow, she also regained her
powers, presumably because that was how Wally remembered her. Initially,
she was concerned that she was not the "same" Donna, but an idealized
form based on Wally's memories. She has since accepted that this is not
the case.

Shortly afterwards, the Titans gathered together to save their friend
Cyborg. They came into conflict with the JLA, but they saved their
friend. During this incident Donna was seemingly reunited with her son
via virtual reality, but with the aid of Nightwing, realized it was not
real. After that, the original five Teen Titans, including Troia,
decided to reform the team. A subsequent battle with Dark Angel
suggested her constant rewriting of Donna's history involved
Hypertime. It is not clear how this ties in with later revelations.

Realizing that Donna was created from a portion of Diana's soul, Queen
Hippolyta accepted Donna as a blood-related daughter and held a
coronation on Themyscira to formally introduce Donna as the second
princess of Paradise Island. This aspect brought Donna more in-line
with her Pre-Crisis Themyscirian origins. After her coronation, Donna
and Diana's bond as sisters grew stronger. The two Amazons shared a high
end apartment in New York City and Donna became more active in life
on Themyscira. While the Amazons of Bana-Mighdall saw Diana as an
official moderator between the Themyscirian Amazons and themselves,
Donna made strides in becoming an accepted member of both tribes in
their eyes. While aiding the Amazons, Donna also came into contact
with the villain Angle Man who immediately became enamored with her.
After their awkward yet flirtatious first meeting, a seriously wounded
Angle Man later teleported himself to Donna seeking her help after being
attacked by The Cheetah.

In a separate battle, Donna was apparently killed by a rogue Superman
robot in the Titans/Young Justice crossover "Graduation Day". However,
in June 2005,  released The Return of Donna Troy, a
four-issue miniseries written by Phil Jimenez with art by José Luis
García-López and George Pérez which marked the resurrection of Donna
Troy and cleared up her multiple origins.

Revelations

Donna Troy has now discovered that like every other person after the
Crisis on Infinite Earths, she is a merger of every alternate version of
Donna Troy in the Multiverse. Unlike everyone else, Donna is the
repository of knowledge of every alternate universe version of herself
and remembers the original Multiverse. She learned that her counterpart
on Earth-Two was saved by a firefighter and was raised in an orphanage,
while her Earth-S counterpart died in the fire. She also discovered that
her sworn enemy of the past, Dark Angel, was in fact the Donna Troy of
Earth-Seven, saved from certain death by the Anti-Monitor, just like the
Monitor had saved Harbinger. When the Multiverse was reconfigured in
one single Universe, Dark Angel, who had somehow escaped the compression
of every Donna Troy into one single person in the new Earth, sought to
kill her (every life she forced her to relive was in fact an aspect of
an alternate Donna as a way to avoid the merging and remain the last one
standing). When she was defeated, Donna became the real sum of every
Donna Troy that existed on every Earth, a living key to the lost
Multiverse.

Her role in Infinite Crisis is, at the end of The Return of Donna
Troy, fully stated: Donna had been reborn after her death at the hands
of the Superman android. The Titans of Myth, realizing that she was the
child who was destined to save them from some impending threat, brought
her to New Cronus and implanted false memories within her mind to make
her believe she was the original Goddess of the Moon and wife of Coeus.
The Titans of Myth incited war between other worlds near New Cronus in
order to gain new worshippers. They would then use the combined power of
their collective faith to open a passageway into another reality, where
they would be safe from destruction. Donna was another means to that end
until she was found by the Titans and The Outsiders who restored her
true memories. This was not without casualties, however. Sparta (who was
restored to full mental health and stripped of the bulk of her power)
had been made an officer in the Titans of Myth's royal military. She was
sacrificed by the Titans of Myth in an attempt to lay siege to the
planet, Minosyss, which housed a Sun-Eater factory miles beneath its
surface. Sparta's death had inadvertently helped trigger Donna's memory
restoration. Athyns had also reappeared by this time, and aided the
heroes and the Mynossian resistance in battling the Titans of Myth. It
was then that Hyperion, the Titan of the Sun, revealed Donna's true
origins to her and ordered her to open a passageway into another reality
by means of a dimensional nexus that once served as a gateway to the
Multiverse itself, within the Sun-Eater factory's core. This turned out
to be the Titans of Myth's real target. Donna did so, but fearing they
would simply continue with their power-mad ambitions, she banished most
of them into Tartarus. However, Hyperion and his wife, Thia, were warned
of the deception at the last moment. Enraged, they turned on Donna,
intending to kill her for the betrayal, but Coeus activated the
Sun-Eater to save her and Arsenal. As the Sun-Eater began absorbing
their vast solar energies, Hyperion and Thia tried to escape through the
Nexus, but they were both torn apart by the combined forces of the
Nexus' dimensional pull and the Sun-Eater's power. Coeus, who had
learned humility and compassion from Donna, vowed to guard the gateway
to make certain the other Titans of Myth remained imprisoned
forever.

Infinite Crisis and 52

Donna returns to the now-barren New Cronus where she shares a joyful
reunion with Wonder Woman. Donna, charged with the guardianship of the
Universe Orb containing the Multiverse Chronicles collected by
Harbinger, makes the startling discovery that an impending doom is
facing the  Universe, a doom she cannot avert alone. Leaving Nightwing
behind on Earth, Donna brings several heroes to New Cronus, including
Animal Man; Cyborg; Firestorm; Herald; Bumblebee; Red Tornado; Shift;
Green Lanterns Alan Scott, Kyle Rayner, and Kilowog; Jade; Starfire;
Supergirl and Captain  Junior (in Outsiders 30). The heroes
confront a mysterious and menacing rip in space caused by Alexander
Luthor, Jr. (as a part of his plan), which has sparked an intergalactic
war. Donna's team contributes to the resolution of the conflict, but
things take a dangerous turn when Alexander uses the inter-dimensional
tear to recreate Earth-Two and, later, the Multiverse. Donna, along with
Kyle Rayner (now called ION), leads the team to attack Alexander Luthor
through his space rift, giving Nightwing, Superboy, and Wonder Girl the
time needed to destroy Alexander's device, and save the two Supermen and
Wonder Woman from being merged with their Earth-Three counterparts.
Though most of the team vanishes when they attempt to leave via the
portal opened by Mal Duncan and Adam Strange, she returns to Earth
shortly after the Battle of Metropolis, and provides a "junior red-sun
eater" to the Green Lantern Corps in which to imprison Superboy-Prime at
the end of the battle on Mogo.

In the series 52, Cyborg, Herald, Alan Scott, Bumblebee, Hawkgirl, and
Firestorm were all returned to Earth although gravely injured, while
other heroes such as Supergirl, Starfire, Animal Man, and Adam Strange
were lost in space. In the History of the  Universe backup feature,
when Donna and the artificial intelligence in charge of Harbinger's
historical records finished her task of reviewing the  Universe's
history, both the artificial intelligence and one of the new Monitors
revealed to her that the current timeline has diverged from its rightful
path, in which Donna herself, instead of Jade, should have sacrificed
herself for Kyle Rayner.

During the World War III storyline, Donna goes into battle as Wonder
Woman against a rampaging Black Adam.

"One Year Later"

During the "One Year Later" storyline event, Donna Troy has assumed the
mantle of Wonder Woman after Diana stepped down following the Crisis,
feeling the need to 'find out who Diana is'. Donna wears a set of
armor during her tenure as Wonder Woman, which includes the bracelet and
star-field material used as part of her Titans regalia. Donna's
post-Infinite Crisis origin, which incorporates elements from her
previous origins, is as follows: Donna was a magical twin of Diana
created by the Amazon Magala and intended as a playmate for the lonely
princess. Donna was later captured by Hippolyta's enemy—Dark Angel who
mistook her for Diana and placed her in suspended animation for several
years. Years later, the grown up Diana, now Wonder Woman, eventually
freed Donna and returned her to Themyscira. Donna was then trained by
both the Amazons and the Titans of Myth. A few years later, Donna
followed Diana into Man's World and became Wonder Girl, wearing a
costume based on Wonder Woman's and helped form the Teen Titans. In
her last adventure as Wonder Woman, Donna battles The Cheetah, Giganta,
and Doctor Psycho. The trio attacks Donna as a means of finding the
then-missing Diana. This eventually happens with the revelation that
Circe is the mastermind behind the attacks and capture. After Donna is
freed from Circe, she dons her old red Wonder Girl jumpsuit and aids her
sister in battle telling Diana that she wants to give the Wonder Woman
title back to her as she was never really comfortable using that name
and would rather just be called Donna Troy.

Donna later works alongside ex-boyfriend Kyle Rayner, who has taken up
the powers and title of Ion again. They go up against one of the
Monitors who attempts to remove them from the newly rebuilt Multiverse,
claiming the two are unwanted anomalies. Donna returns to Earth with Ion
in time for him to say good-bye to his dying mother. After that event,
Donna joins several former Teen Titans in the current team's battle
against Deathstroke and his Titans East team.

Countdown to Final Crisis

Donna attends Duela Dent's funeral with the Teen Titans. She is
confronted by Jason Todd, who seeks her out as a kindred spirit; the two
cross paths while investigating Duela's murder. Donna places her
investigation on hold when the Amazons invade Washington, D.C. during
the events depicted in Amazons Attack!_ She travels to the city and
confronts Hippolyta, advising her to end the invasion, but Hippolyta
informs her that she will only consider a withdrawal if Donna will
include Diana in their talks. Donna leaves to find her sister. Jason,
who has followed Donna to Washington, tells her that the Monitors are
responsible for Duela's death. Donna and Jason are attacked by the
Monitor's warrior, Forerunner. They are saved by a benevolent
Monitor, whom Jason calls Bob, and recruited to locate Ray Palmer. They
soon learn that Palmer is hiding in the Multiverse.

The group is joined by Kyle Rayner; Jason and Kyle bicker during the
journey and Donna is annoyed. Ray Palmer is located on Earth-51 and
Bob attacks him, betraying the group. Donna and the others escape,
and are caught in the crossfire when Monarch's forces attack
Earth-51. Donna is attacked by an alternate version of herself
wearing a Wonder Girl costume, and overcomes her doppelganger and
escapes. She takes the doppelganger's costume, defeats one of
Monarch's lieutenants, and is acclaimed leader of an insect army by
right of conquest. She leads the force of Myrmidons into the battle
against Monarch's forces. Superboy-Prime confronts Monarch, and the
insect warriors are killed in the fallout.

Following the battle, Donna alone is able to discern a message directing
the group to Apokolips, where the team are witness to its destruction as
they first meet the other Countdown characters: Jimmy Olsen, Forager,
Pied Piper, Mary , Holly Robinson, Harley Quinn, Karate Kid, and
Una. Witnessing Apokolips near-destruction at the hands of
Brother Eye, the team are later sent to a reconstituted Earth-51 by
Solomon, now a world similar to New Earth with the absence of the now
much-expanded Challengers team. It is here that Karate Kid dies, and
his Morticoccus virus transforms the world almost entirely to violent
animal-human hybrids, losing Una to the feral natives and leaving that
Earth's Buddy Blank's grandson as the Last Boy on Earth.
Returned to New Earth by Jimmy Olsen via a Boom Tube, Gothamites Harley,
Holly, and Jason return home while Mary  is once again corrupted
by Darkseid who captures Jimmy, who holds the power of all the deceased
New Gods. Freed from Darkseid's control by Atom's microscopic
rewiring, Jimmy and Darkseid duke it out until Orion descends from the
heavens (following his interrupted battle with the killer of the New
Gods in Death of the New Gods), and slays his father. In the
aftermath of these events, the remaining party of Donna, Kyle, Ray, and
Forager announce to the Monitors they will serve as bodyguards for the
New Multiverse, and depart to places unknown.

Returning to Earth after her adventures in the Multiverse with Kyle,
Donna and other former and present Titans are targeted by a mysterious
foe who is later revealed to be Trigon. The Titans reform to fend off
Trigon's assault and avenge the incapacitated Titans East team.

In Final Crisis #5, Donna Troy has been turned into a Justifier. She,
amongst other Justifiers, attacked the Switzerland Checkmate HQ. She
tried to put the Justifier helmet onto Alan Scott before being knocked
away by Hawkman.

Justice League

The build-up to Donna's recruitment begins when she volunteers to help
Mikaal Tomas and Congorilla track down the supervillain Prometheus. She
accompanies them to the JLA Watchtower alongside Starfire and Animal
Man, only to discover that Red Arrow has been mutilated by
Prometheus. During the ensuing battle, Donna is impaled through the
wrists, but frees herself. Prometheus projects a hologram around her,
causing Green Arrow to shoot her in the leg, which somehow penetrates
her super-tough skin and causes her to fall unconscious. She takes down
Prometheus after he defeats the rest of the team, rips of his helmet,
and starts beating him brutally, but the Shade stops her. Unfortunately,
the villain destroys Star City via a teleportation device.

During the Blackest Night crossover, Donna has a horrific encounter
with her deceased son Robert and husband Terry, revived as undead beings
by the Black Lantern Corps. She is bitten by Robert, becoming "infected"
by the Black Lantern's power. Donna, along with Superboy, Kid Flash,
Wonder Woman, Green Lantern (Hal Jordan) and several other resurrected
heroes, began to be targeted by Nekron, the being responsible for the
Black Lanterns. Donna's previous status as a deceased allowed for her to
be transformed into a Black Lantern. However, unlike the other heroes,
Donna was converted by being infected with the Black Lantern's power
rather than having a ring forced on her. Donna is freed by the power
of white light.

In the aftermath of this, Donna is told by Wonder Woman that she could
benefit from being a part of the JLA. To that end, she officially joins
the team, even recruiting Cyborg, Dick Grayson (now Batman), and
Starfire as well. Donna remains with the League and battles such
foes as Superwoman, Wonder Woman's counterpart from the Crime Syndicate
of Amerika, and the demonic entity Eclipso. Donna eventually resigns
from the team after coming to peace with her inner turmoil, and Dick
disbands the team shortly after.

The New 52

In 2011, following the Flashpoint storyline,  revised its
continuity, relaunching with a suite of new #1 comics as part of an
initiative called The New 52. Donna does not initially appear in this
continuity at all; the Teen Titans are first established in the present
day, with Cassie Sandsmark as Wonder Girl, and Wonder Woman's new origin
presents her as the natural-born daughter of Zeus and Hippolyta.

There are currently two Donna Troys existing in the New 52 
continuity. A flesh and blood Donna Troy is seen wandering America and
served as part of the long forgotten (due to telepathic mindwiping)
original incarnation of the Titans. During a battle with Mister Twister,
the group fell under his telepathic command as part of an occult ritual.
Donna had her memories erased of her time with the Titans, in order to
break Mr Twister's grip on their souls.

While wandering around a dock, Donna is hit with a sudden cascade of
memories and soon is joined by Dick Grayson and Tempest, who encountered
each other in battle before their memories flashed with a sudden sense
that they knew each other. Together, they sought out Mr. Twister and
fought Mr Twister's bodyguard Mammoth while trying to reach the tower
where Mr Twister was located.

A second villainous golem style Donna Troy also exists, although its
currently unknown if her and the flesh and blood Donna Troy that appears
in the pages of Titans Hunt are the same person or two different
characters. This inhuman Donna Troy was made from a melted status of
Hypolyta, by a group of Amazons lead by the witch Derinoe who sought to
dethrone Wonder Woman, after she banned the policy of raping/murdering
men and selling all male offspring into slavery and allowed the male
amazon children to return to Themyscira after freeing them from slavery.
Declaring the golem Donna their new Queen, they arranged for her the
Amazons in slaughtering their male brethren. With the Amazons
resentful of their queen's (Wonder Woman's) extended absences from
Themyscira, they begin looking for a new leader. Donna is ultimately
defeated by Wonder Woman and sent to Olympus to be imprisoned, while her
allies are forced into slavery as punishment for their role in the
genocide. During her imprisonment, Donna eventually realizes her own
mistakes and began to suffer nightmares about the murders she committed,
seeing herself as a monster. Diana encouraged her to forgive herself and
accept her own failures.

The Fates however, sensing a different destiny for Donna, secretly free
her with Discord's help and transport her to London to start anew and
find redemption. However, the misandry programmed into her by the
Amazons is too much to overcome, and when a female friend of hers called
Violet is murdered by her abusive boyfriend, she tried to murder the man
in order to avenge Violet's death. Fortunately, Wonder Woman appear just
in time to stop her and tried to reason with Donna, but the former
amazon, overcome with grief and rage, blames Diana for everything that
happened and tried to kill her, only to be killed instead by one of
Nikos Aegeus's arrows, turning her back into an statue.

It turns out, however, this was all part of the Fates plan all along.
Minutes after Donna's death, baby Zeke (Zeus incarnation) appears and
touches Donna restoring her to life and making her the new embodiment of
Fate, replacing the Fates, whose power had been fading away as humanity
stopped believing in the Olympian gods. As the new Fate, Donna
apparently has the power to see visions of possible future outcomes and
could change people's fates, with unexpected consequences.

Convergence

Two versions of Donna Troy (Pre-Crisis and Pre-Flashpoint) appear during
the Convergence crossover. In "Convergence: New Teen Titans", the New
Teen Titans are taken along with the city of New York between the events
of New Teen Titans V2 #11-12 by Brainiac and forced to against the Doom
Patrol of the Tangent Universe. During the two part mini-series, Donna
serves an unofficial relationship counselor for Starfire and Nightwing
(who are newly married and having a series of fights over whether or not
they rushed into marriage after Starfire lost her powers when the city
was kidnapped) and Kole and Jericho (over Kole having problems dealing
with Jericho's passive nature and fears that Jericho may be gay).

In "Convergence: Titans", the Pre-Flashpoint Donna Troy, taken along
with all of New York by Brainiac, after the disbanding of the Justice
League in Justice League of America #60, continues to help Roy Harper
deal with the deal of his daughter and drug relapse with help from
Starfire. When Telos forces the city to battle the Extremists, she works
with Roy to doublecross Dreamslayer, after the villain resurrects Roy's
daughter Lian in order to try and force him to slay his teammates. After
beating the Extremists, Donna orders Roy to spend the rest of the battle
on the sidelines with his newly resurrected daughter.

The pre-Flashpoint Donna Troy is one of the many heroes united against
Deimos in the 2015  nostalgia crossover series Convergence.


Origin retcons

Donna Troy is often noted for having had a number of complicated
revisions to her origin. Writer Marv Wolfman recounted

  I wrote the original Donna Troy origin story back in the first Titans
  run. She had never had one and was, in fact, not a “real” character
  (if you can call any of them real). She was a computer simulation of
  Wonder Woman as a girl. That story also named her Donna Troy and set
  up everything that followed. Unfortunately, after Crisis on Infinite
  Earths and the Wonder Woman revamp, we had to go back and redo it
  again as a brand new Wonder Woman being born on Earth could not have
  rescued the girl from the burning building. I wish we had been able to
  keep it as I think it’s gone insane now. I just wanted a simple origin
  story. I came up with the original, and then [in “Who is Donna Troy?”]
  George [Pérez] and I simply elaborated on what had been done, giving
  her real knowledge of who she was. I would love to say that everything
  after “Who is Donna Troy?” should be forgotten, but that’s not the way
  continuity works, sadly.

Under John Byrne, Donna was retconned to be a clay golem/duplicate of
Wonder Woman kidnapped by Dark Angel (a Nazi villain Hypolyta had fought
after she was sent back in time and trapped for the entirety of the
1940s in the past). Dark Angel forced Donna to undergo multiple "lives"
that all end in tragedy and result in her resetting back to her
beginning. Hypolyta and Wonder Woman eventually rescue Donna but not
before Dark Angel destroyed Donna rather than let her be freed from her
clutches. With help from Wally West, Donna was recreated as a golem but
with Wally's incomplete, Pollyanna esque memories of her. Later,
Dark Angel attempted to erase all memories of Donna from the various
Hypertime realities, forcing her into conflict with Donna and the Titans
and the Titans of the Kingdom Come Universe. During the battle, Donna
was mindwiped but then reprogrammed with all of her old memories after
she is made to relive her past lives.

After Donna Troy died in battle with a series of Superman androids
reprogramed by Brainiac (to kill Donna due to her role in a future event
where she would lead the Titans in battle against Brainiac), she was
resurrected by the Titans of Myth, who sought to use her status as an
anomaly from the first Crisis, to escape the coming cataclysm of
Infinite Crisis. This story established Donna as a full-on time anomaly,
who survived the Crisis but was subjected to multiple alternate origins
as the universe tried to fit her into the new timeline. During this
story, it was also revealed that Dark Angel was an evil alternate
Universe version of Donna from the Charlton Comics universe Earth 4,
empowered by the Anti-Monitor, who saved her and trained her to be his
version of Harbringer.

Most recently, due to critical backlash over portraying Donna Troy as a
misandrist and a mass murderer of innocent men, as well as fan
discontent over the removal of the original Teen Titan group,  has
retconned a more or less traditional Donna Troy back into the continuity
of the New 52 as part of the Titans Hunt. The origin of this more
traditional version of the new Donna Troy remains unknown, save that she
hails from Paradise Island. It's also unknown if this version and the
Donna Troy from the current Wonder Woman comic are the same person.


Powers and abilities

Donna's superhuman powers have changed several times over the years, but
in all of her various incarnations, they have always consisted of
considerable superhuman strength, endurance, speed, and the power of
flight.

-   In her pre-Crisis origin, Donna was granted those powers by the
    Amazon's Purple Ray, and these powers increased as she grew older.
    She also wielded a lasso of her own, but it apparently had no
    magical properties like Diana's Lasso of Truth, aside from being
    infinite in length and virtually indestructible. Post-Crisis on
    Infinite Earths, it was revealed that Donna's original lasso was a
    STAR Labs creation.
-   The first major redefinition of Donna's powers came about when she
    took the name of Troia. She still possessed all the abilities she
    had before, but now in addition to those, she could wield photonic
    energy as power blasts and protective force fields. Donna has
    the ability to project three dimensional images of a person's
    memories, provided the subject is a willing participant in the
    process. Donna's Troia costume was made of various gifts given
    to her by the Titans of Myth, the most notable of which was the
    unique star field material that showed the exact location of
    New Chronus.
-   After Donna petitioned the Titans of Myth to depower her, she became
    Darkstar, gaining the standard exomantle all members wore, granting
    her superhuman strength, speed, and agility. The exomantle also
    possessed a personal force field for protection against physical
    impact and energy attacks. The main weapons were twin maser units
    that fired energy blasts with pinpoint accuracy; however, it seems
    that Donna did not undergo the surgical procedure to attain the
    instant mastery of maser control that the other Darkstars had, and
    had a split-second delay in reaction time when wearing the less
    powerful deputy version of the exo-mantle. A powerful shoulder
    mounted cannon complemented the maser system of the
    Darkstars' exo-mantle. With the exo-mantle, one could achieve high
    speeds during flight, all the while protected from wind friction by
    the force field.
-   After her post-Crisis origin was created Donna regained the
    powers she had lost at the Titans of Myth's behest, but now they
    were virtually identical to Diana's. Donna and Diana also share a
    psychic rapport which allows one to feel either what the other is
    experiencing or even share dreams. Shortly after her
    resurrection as the Goddess of the Moon, during the Return of Donna
    Troy limited series, Donna's powers were enhanced and upgraded. She
    retained all of the abilities she had before, and regained her
    energy manipulation abilities (which, being cosmic-based, were far
    more powerful). She also commanded darkness and cold to
    great effect. Donna has not been shown using those powers since
    regaining her memories. Over the years, Donna has grown extremely
    powerful, with power and strength, almost rivaling her big sister,
    Diana (Wonder Woman). She is considered to be one of the strongest
    superheroines of the  Universe along with Power Girl, Supergirl,
    Big Barda, Mary , Starfire and Wonder Woman. Donna also has
    incredible super-speed. She is fast enough to outrace bullets with
    ease, and like Wonder Woman, she's said to be able to move at speeds
    far beyond the speed of sound. She has been shown moving fast enough
    to catch up to speedsters such as Jesse Quick. While not totally
    invulnerable, Donna has a very high degree of resistance to injury.
    Donna has been punched through several floors of reinforced steel
    and concrete, as well as taken on powerful beings such as Etrigan,
    Black Mary , Wonder Woman, Superwoman, Black Adam,
    and Superman.
-   Like all Amazons, Donna is exceptionally well trained in the use of
    various weapons and in various martial arts. Her sister Diana,
    mother Hippolyte, General Phillipus, and Artemis seem to be her only
    rivals as a warrior (among the Amazons). She is also a very capable
    leader and strategist.
-   Donna currently wields a new lasso of her own called the Lasso
    of Persuasion. It glows blue, and like Wonder Woman's lasso is
    quite durable. It also has the ability to force anyone within its
    confines to do Donna's bidding if her willpower is greater than
    theirs.
-   Donna has the ability to flawlessly imitate the voice of anyone she
    has heard.


Reception

IGN placed Donna Troy as the 93rd greatest comic book hero of all time
stating that even though she might have the most unnecessarily complex
history of all comics the character has served a major purpose in the 
universe since her inception.


In other media

[Cover to Teen Titans Go!_ #36 (Oct. 2006). Art by Glen Murakami.]

-   The first animated appearance of Donna Troy as Wonder Girl was in
    the Teen Titans segments of 1967's The Superman/Aquaman Hour of
    Adventure, voiced by Julie Bennett.
-   In 1976, a version of Wonder Girl (played by Debra Winger) appeared
    in the Wonder Woman TV series, named Drusilla and having a
    personality and origin different from Donna Troy. She would later
    have a brief cameo in Infinite Crisis #6 as the Wonder Girl
    of Earth-462. The name "Drusilla" has also been used by Cassandra
    Sandsmark.
-   Donna Troy as Wonder Girl appeared in a 1984 animated Keebler
    anti-drug commercial.
-   In the fifth season of the animated Teen Titans series, a girl
    bearing a resemblance to the Donna Troy version of Wonder Girl — a
    brunette with star-shaped earrings — is seen briefly in episodes
    "Homecoming, part II" (2005) and "Calling All Titans" (2006).
    The October 2006 issue (#36 "Troy") of the series' tie-in comic book
    Teen Titans Go!_ features this version of Wonder Girl as part of
    the team. She was seen briefly in the previous issue in a cameo on
    Paradise Island and has since appeared in subsequent issues of the
    series including the 2007 Valentine's issue.
-   Donna Troy appears in  Universe Online, voiced by Deena Hyatt;
    she is originally fought as a possessed minion of Trigon's, but
    later becomes a helping ally. She is also a vendor in the Watchtower
    selling the Tier 2 Iconic Armor, "Hera's Strength".
-   Donna Troy (as Wonder Girl) appears as one of the lead characters in
    Super Best Friends Forever, a series of animated shorts for
    Cartoon Network's  Nation block. She is voiced by Grey
    DeLisle.
-   Though she did not appear onscreen, according to creator Greg
    Weisman, Donna Troy (as Troia) was a member of the Team during the
    five-year gap between seasons one and two of Young Justice. He
    also revealed that Donna was supposed to have been present in
    "Satisfaction" as one of the guests at Raquel Ervin's bridal shower,
    but was cut from the finalized episode.

