DRAAGA is a fictional alien character in the  universe. He
first appeared in Adventures of Superman #454 during the 1989
SUPERMAN IN EXILE storyline.


Fictional character history

In the "Exile" storyline, Superman has exiled himself from Earth due to
psychological problems he was suffering from at the time. He is forced
by the space villain Mongul to participate in his gladiatorial games.
Draaga is the champion of the games, but Superman defeats him, then
refuses to kill him. This baffles Draaga, whose code of honour demands a
rematch against Superman, though he later comes to respect the hero.
After Mongul is deposed by Superman, the aliens who control the
artificial planet Warworld choose Draaga to be their new puppet ruler.

Draaga eventually abandons the position to look for Superman, even
finding the remains of Superman's costume (torn apart during his stay)
and wearing them, in a sort of homage to the warrior who defeated
him. After taking a "space taxi" he arrives on Earth and challenges
Superman to a fight to the death. Superman, at the time under the
mental influence of the Eradicator (a Kryptonian artifact), fights
Draaga in New York and on Earth's moon, and is on the verge of killing
him when he is transported away from the fight by Professor Hamilton.
Draaga is dragged away, unconscious, by the "space taxi" driver, who is
worried about collecting his fare.

Draaga returns in the "Panic in the Sky" storyline where he is employed
by Maxima to destroy Superman. The Superman he encounters here is
actually the android Supergirl Matrix wearing Superman's form, who loses
to Draaga on an asteroid. The second time Draaga loses on Warworld is in
a contest held by Brainiac. Later Draaga joins Superman in the fight
against Brainiac to regain his honor. He is killed while jumping into an
organic anti-matter doomsday device created by Brainiac and is buried
beside The Cleric, on the asteroid on which he first encountered
Supergirl. The shapeshifting Matrix honours Draaga for the rest of the
battle against Brainiac by adopting his form.


Powers and abilities

Draaga is superhumanly strong and resistant to injury. His strength
level is almost in the same class as Superman.


In other media

Draaga appears in the animated Justice League episode, "War World", an
adaptation of the "Gladiator" comics storyline. He is voiced by William
Smith.

Draaga appears in issue 20 of the Young Justice comics based off the
show. Superman mentions he came to Metropolis to challenge him to a
fight, but was defeated by him and Superboy. He is later found in stasis
by Superman and Captain Atom aboard a ship controlled by Kylstar, an
operative for The Collector of Worlds.

