DUPLICATE BOY (ORD QUELU of the planet Lallor) is a fictional superhero
in the first appearing in a story by science fiction writer Edmond
Hamilton in Adventure Comics #324 (September 1964). Hamilton had
created a backstory for Duplicate Boy, who was first submitted as a
super hero concept to  by a young fan, Thea Temple, in 1963,
who received acknowledgment from the company. Duplicate Boy appeared as
a supporting character in the Legion of Super-Heroes titles, set
approximately a thousand years in the future, and is one of the most
powerful beings in that time-frame.


Fictional character biography

Duplicate Boy is a member of the Heroes of Lallor which operates in the
30th Century along with the Legion of Super-Heroes with whom he has
teamed up on occasion. He was romantically involved with Legionnaire
Shrinking Violet for many years. When she is kidnapped and replaced by
Yera, a Durlan impostor who starts a romantic relationship with Colossal
Boy, he travels to Earth to confront him. Busy fighting Colossal Boy, he
is knocked unconscious by another Legionnaire, Ultra Boy. Recovering, he
then confronts Violet and realizes that she is an impostor, but she
convinces him not to mention this to anyone. When Violet is freed from
captivity some time later, she dumps him for this act.

Duplicate Boy has not appeared in any post-Crisis stories.


Powers and abilities

Duplicate Boy can duplicate any superpower he has ever encountered, and
is able to duplicate more than one at a time as well. Thus, he is
potentially more powerful than every other superhero in the 30th
century, including each member of the Legion of Super-Heroes.

His main limitation was his intelligence, as he often would "forget to
be invulnerable". For whatever reason he was never depicted as trying to
duplicate intelligence powers (e.g., Brainiac 5) that might help him
deduce what powers would be most effective, instead usually relying on
Evolvo Lad's strategems or none at all. He once tried to take on Validus
by duplicating the "Validus Power", which caused him to fall
unconscious.

Category:Characters created by Edmond Hamilton Category:Characters
created by John Forte Category:Comics characters introduced in 1964
Category: superheroes
