EL DIABLO is a name shared by several fictional characters published by
. LAZARUS LANE, the first El Diablo, debuted in All-Star
Western #2 (October 1970), and was created by Robert Kanigher and Gray
Morrow.


Publication history

The first El Diablo, Lazarus Lane, was created by Robert Kanigher and
Gray Morrow and debuted in All-Star Western #2 (cover-dated Oct.
1970). Lane starred in a four issue mini-series series published by 
Comics through their Vertigo imprint as a mature readers title; El
Diablo #1 (March 2001) was written by Brian Azzarello and drawn by
Danijel Zezelj.

Rafael Sandoval first appeared in El Diablo vol. 2, #1 (Aug. 1989] and
was created by Gerard Jones and Mike Parobeck.

Chato Santana first appeared in El Diablo vol. 3, #1 (Sept. 2008) and
was created by Jai Nitz, Phil Hester and Ande Parks.


Fictional character biography

Lazarus Lane

Lazarus Lane is the original El Diablo, operating in the latter half of
the 19th century in the American Old West. Lane was originally a bank
teller who is nearly killed by a gang of thieves and put in a coma after
being struck by lightning. After being revived by a Native American
shaman named "Wise Owl", Lane becomes a vigilante and called himself El
Diablo. The name El Diablo means "the devil" in Spanish.

According to Jonah Hex vol. 2, #11 (Nov. 2006) and #24 (Dec. 2007),
Lazarus Lane is cursed to be the host of a minor demon which acts as a
Spirit of Vengeance. Lane's body slumbers in a coma while "El Diablo"
roams the Earth. His fate is similar to that of the current Crimson
Avenger. In Swamp Thing vol. 2, #85 (April 1989), Wise Owl is shown in
a more villainous light, with Lane/El Diablo his unwilling servant. In
that story, set in 1872, a number of 's western heroes (including the
aforementioned Hex, Bat Lash, Johnny Thunder, and Madame .44) were
employed by Otto Von Hammer and Jason Blood to defeat Wise Owl and
recover from him an object of great power, which turned out to be a
crystal containing the spirit of Swamp Thing, who had become lost in
time. When the group killed Wise Owl, Lane's comatose body woke up, and
El Diablo apparently vanished forever.

In The New 52 (a reboot of the  universe), Lazarus Lane
appeared in a backup feature in All-Star Western. In this iteration,
he was once again cursed by Wise Owl to become the host of a demon.
Rather than being in a coma, Lazarus remains awake. However, El Diablo
arises from his body whenever he is unconscious.

Rafael Sandoval

The second iteration was created in 1989 by writer Gerard Jones and
artist Mike Parobeck as a title set in the modern  Universe. This
title lasted 16 months. As created by Jones and Parobeck, Rafael
Sandoval is a rookie member of the city council of Dos Rios, Texas who
creates his version of El Diablo from a festival costume and an old
boxing persona and local legends surrounding the Devil when stymied by
officials while trying to pursue the case of a serial arsonist.
Subsequent efforts involved battles with illicit drug smugglers using
maquiladora covers for their activities, a hunt for a serial killer,
conflicts with human-smuggling operations, and with Sandoval's own
conscience over how best to serve the people of Dos Rios.

Rafael Sandoval's character has subsequently made guest appearances in
one of the Justice League titles, in which he is possessed by the spirit
of an Aztec god-emperor and takes on an appearance reminiscent of the
Lazarus Lane Diablo. He also appears in the Villains United Special
when he is pulled out of retirement by Oracle to serve in her de facto
Justice League, whereupon he is attacked by a member of the Royal Flush
Gang during a battle at the Enclave M prison in the Sonora Valley,
Mexico. He is wounded in the battle, but saved from death by the warden
of the facility.

Chato Santana

The current El Diablo is Chato Santana, an ex-criminal who after being
hospitalized, meets a still living comatose Lazarus Lane. It is
written by Jai Nitz, pencilled by Phil Hester, with inks by Ande
Parks.

In The New 52, he is a member of the Suicide Squad.


In other media

Television

-   The Lazarus Lane version of El Diablo appears in the Justice League
    Unlimited episode "The Once and Future Thing" voiced by Nestor
    Carbonell. While designed after his comic appearance, elements from
    Zorro's appearance were added in.

Film

-   Jay Hernandez will play Chato Santana / El Diablo in the upcoming
    live-action 2016 film Suicide Squad.

Video games

-   The Chato Santana incarnation of El Diablo appears in Lego Batman
    3: Beyond Gotham. He is part of "The Squad" downloadable content.

