ELEMENT GIRL is a superheroine appearing in American comic books
published by . The character first appeared in Metamorpho #10
(Feb. 1967). Element Girl's death was featured in Neil Gaiman's
Sandman series in issue #20, "Façade." A similar character named
ELEMENT WOMAN appeared during the events of Flashpoint and later
appearing in The New 52 as part of the Justice League. Both characters
are similar in design to Metamorpho and have the same powers.


Fictional character biography

Element Girl

URANIA "RAINIE" BLACKWELL began as a spy for the United States
government. Her first major assignment was to infiltrate a European
crime syndicate called Cyclops and get a first-hand look at the workings
of its leader—a man code-named Stingaree. She soon fell in love with
him, and agreed to marry him, only to have him spurn her when his
mercurial affections turned elsewhere. In turn, Blackwell managed to
convince her agency that the romance had been a sham, as part of her
role, and asked their help in finding some way to strike back at
Stingaree. The agency obliged by offering her the chance to take part in
a long-planned experiment.

A few months earlier, an adventurer and soldier of fortune named Rex
Mason had entered the Egyptian pyramid of Ahk-Ton on a treasure hunt.
There he had been exposed to the radiation of a buried meteor, part of
the great Orb of Ra, and had been transformed into Metamorpho, the
Element Man. Blackwell volunteered to duplicate Mason's encounter, and
consequently found herself, once inside the pyramid, molded by the
mystical sun god Ra into an elemental with superpowers identical to
Mason's.

Blackwell, now calling herself ELEMENT GIRL, sought out Metamorpho and
recruited his help in her mission to destroy Stingaree. Together they
destroyed Cyclops, and the two allies found themselves in danger of
becoming a romantic pair, much to the dismay of Metamorpho's fiancee,
the debutante Sapphire Stagg. Though it was obvious to Mason that he and
Blackwell were kindred spirits, he eventually severed his ties with her
to salvage his relationship with Sapphire. This abandonment devastated
Blackwell. Overnight, she found herself cast back into the "real world",
a place where men and women labored in mundane nine-to-five jobs and
where contact with superhumans like her was limited to television
newscasts and the occasional fleeting glimpse of an Earthbound demigod.
She turned to the agency for help and acceptance, but their activities
had become delicate and covert; their missions were such that a
"metamorphosized freak" like her would be more of a hindrance than help.

Her insecurities caused problems, and in later years when her feelings
for Metamorpho went unrequited, she became isolated. Blackwell found
herself utterly alone, ostracized by the employers who had helped
destroy her humanity and terrified of interacting with more
normal-looking men and women. For years she endured a completely
insulated existence, living on a disability pension and for the
occasional phone call from the agency. Abandoned by her employers and
unwilling to face the world, Blackwell attempted suicide many times;
however, her powers saved her every time.

Eventually, Death of The Endless helped Blackwell. Death stated that she
could not personally help Blackwell, since Blackwell's immortality and
powers had originated from the sun god Ra. Death revealed that Blackwell
was one of many "metamorphae" created by Ra to battle the god Apep, "the
serpent that never dies". Death comments on the irony of this, stating
that Apep is long dead. Death then tells Blackwell how to ask Ra to
remove her "gift", by looking straight into sun and asking him, and
Blackwell finally dies, leaving behind a disintegrating husk of a body
with an expression of pure joy.

Element Girl appeared again as Rex Mason's sidekick in the "Metamorpho"
feature of the summer series Wednesday Comics This feature is
written by Gaiman with art by Mike Allred and occurs outside of 
continuity.

Element Woman

EMILY SUNG, the Element Woman, first appears during the "Throne of
Atlantis" crossover as one of Cyborg's new recruits for the Justice
League. During a battle with a number of Atlantean soldiers loyal to
Ocean Master, Element Woman nonchalantly chats with Black Lightning,
expressing joy over being asked to join the League.

She is later inducted into the League alongside a new, female Atom and
Firestorm. Her relation to Metamorpho is unknown. However, she does
reference him by first name.

After the events of Forever Evil, Element Woman joins the Doom Patrol.

Flashpoint

Prior to appearing in the mainstream  Universe, Element Woman made her
debut in the alternate Flashpoint universe. She first appears at a
meeting of superhumans assembled by Cyborg with the intention of
stopping an oncoming war between the Amazons and Atlanteans. She offers
her help, but is dismissed by Shade, the Changing Man, who uses his
M-Vest to reveal to the others that Element Woman is insane. She
subsequently reappears in Metropolis, where she rescues Cyborg, Batman
and the Flash from a group of soldiers working for the mysterious
Project Superman. She then reveals that she has been following Cyborg
ever since his initial failed attempt to recruit the heroes to stop the
war, and that she wishes to help him.

Emily continues to accompany the new gathering of heroes as they travel
to visit the members of SHAZAM. Despite her social awkwardness, she
offers to help the group and joins the mission to the elevated coast of
New Themyscira. After the death of Billy Batson, Emily uses her powers
to protect the remaining children alongside Cyborg.


Powers and abilities

Like Metamorpho's original powers, Element Girl (and Element Woman)
could transform her body into any of the elements naturally found in the
human body and shape them at her will. She can change her hair color
using metals, and she can create silicate faces that fall off after a
while. She uses the faces for ashtrays. She said she once tried to
transmutate her body into flesh, but this experience ended badly and she
vowed never to try it again.


Quotes from Neil Gaiman

Neil Gaiman, author of the Sandman comic book series, discussed the
death of Element Girl in an interview with Comix Experience:

    NEIL GAIMAN: There's one called "The Death of Element Girl", in
    which Sandman probably won't even appear. He might appear, I dunno.
    That has Death, and an old  character called Element Girl, who
    nobody remembers any more._

    COMIX EXPERIENCE: From Metamorpho.

    NEIL GAIMAN: Yeah. The Lady Metamorpho. So famous she never even
    made it into Who's Who. Anyway, she's in there. Terribly
    sad story._

Although she did not have an entry in the original series, Element Girl
received an entry in Who's Who in the  Universe #10 (June 1991),
stamped "DECEASED" after her appearance in Sandman.

