THE DEMON is a superhero and antihero appearing in comic books published
by . Created by Jack Kirby, the titular character, named
ETRIGAN, is a demon from Hell who, despite his violent tendencies,
usually finds himself allied to the forces of good, mainly because of
the alliance between the heroic characters of the  Universe and JASON
BLOOD, a human to whom Etrigan is bound. Etrigan is a muscular
humanoid creature with orange or yellow skin, horns, red eyes, and
pointed, webbed ears. The character was originally based in Gotham City,
leading to numerous team-ups with Batman.

Etrigan was inspired by a comic strip of Prince Valiant in which the
eponymous character dressed as a demon. Kirby gave his creation the same
appearance as Valiant's mask.


Publication history

Jack Kirby created the Demon in 1972 when his Fourth World titles were
cancelled. According to Mark Evanier, Kirby had no interest in horror
comics, but created Etrigan in response to a demand from  for a horror
character. Kirby was annoyed that the first issue sold so well that 
required him to remain on it and abandon the Fourth World titles before
he was done with them.

While his first monthly comic book series was short-lived, and his
second was canceled after five years, Etrigan remains a popular
supporting character with occasional additional mini-series. Popular
series in which Etrigan has appeared include Neil Gaiman's The Sandman
(see Characters of The Sandman - Minor Angels and Demons), Alan
Moore's Swamp Thing, Kevin Smith's Green Arrow and Batman: The
Widening Gyre, Garth Ennis's Hitman, and Cosmic Odyssey by Jim
Starlin and Mike Mignola.

The New 52

 launched a new series featuring Etrigan titled Demon
Knights, with issue #1 on September 14, 2011 as part of their
company-wide relaunch. It was written by Paul Cornell and drawn by
Diógenes Neves.


Fictional character biography

Pre/Post-Crisis

Etrigan, son of the demon Belial, is summoned by the wizard Merlin, his
half-brother. Unable to gain the creature's secrets, he bonds
the demon with Jason Blood, a knight in King Arthur's Camelot. This
renders Jason immortal, though at times he considers this either a
penance or a curse.

Centuries later, Jason Blood resurfaces in recent times, becoming a
prominent demonologist in Gotham City. Jason is called to the crypt of
Merlin and discovers a poem that changes him into Etrigan.
Unfortunately, he is followed by the long-lived Morgaine le Fey, who
lusts for Merlin's secrets. That leads to Etrigan's first major battle.
Over the years, Etrigan both clashes with and occasionally aids Earth's
heroes, guided by his own whims and Jason's attempts to turn his
infernal power to good use.

Some time after his first appearance, Etrigan begins speaking in rhyme
due to a promotion in Hell, though he is not limited to
rhyme. He led the forces of Hell in the great battle against The
Darkness and was in brief contact with the entity in its questions about
its nature - he barely survived the attempt. His high rank would
also see him guide Dream of the Endless from Hell's gates to Lucifer.

When Jason Blood's daughter was born, he decided to destroy Etrigan and
hired metahuman hitman Tommy Monaghan to help him. After a battle
against both Merlin and Etrigan, the two of them rescued the baby and
Blood was able to steal the demon's heart, essentially neutralizing the
demon and binding him to Jason's will. However, at the end of the battle
to gain the demon's heart Jason Blood left the child, Kathryn Mark, with
her mother, Glenda Mark. Jason told Glenda before he had left, "Take
care of our daughter, Glenda. I think it would be best if she never knew
about her father." Blood then skipped out on paying Monaghan the $2
million he'd promised. Etrigran became listless and ceased to rhyme.
However, when Monaghan needed an edge against the demon Mawzir, he
conned Blood into returning to Gotham and using Etrigan to retrieve an
anti-demon rifle from Hell, all while preparing to force the
demonologist to let the monster onto Earth again. Despite the real risk
that Etrigan would kill him in vengeance, Monahgan traded Etrigan his
heart for the Ace of Winchesters, once more forcing Blood to have the
full burden and returning Etrigan to his full strength (though Etrigan
went back on the deal and tried to kill Monaghan anyway).

Despite Blood's own doubts about himself, when the Justice League
vanished during their attempt to rescue Aquaman from the past, Batman's
emergency program — designed to assemble a substitute Justice League in
the event that the originals were ever killed — selected Blood as the
team's magic expert, a pre-recorded message Batman had left for Blood
assuring the sorcerer that he would not give Etrigan the keys to the
Watchtower unless he was certain he could be controlled. While working
with the team, Jason spent some time reinforcing the Watchtower's
magical defences. During the subsequent fight with Gamemnae, Jason
sacrificed himself to free Zatanna from her control, although he later
escaped Gamemnae's quagmire spell thanks to the Martian Manhunter
telepathically prompting his transformation into Etrigan. The crisis
resolved, Jason handed his duties as the League's magic expert over to
Manitou Raven, newly arrived in the present, before departing.

The series Blood of the Demon, plotted and drawn by John Byrne, and
scripted by Will Pfeifer, began in May 2005. Etrigan apparently loses
the restrictions imposed upon him by the wizard Merlin which turned him
from evil, caused by his "murder" at the exact moment he was
transforming from his human guise, Jason Blood, into his demon self. It
turns out that the incident has resulted in Jason Blood being able to
exert some will over Etrigan's violent nature, whereas previously the
two remained separate, only one existing at a time. Blood of the Demon
ended with issue #17 in July 2006.

Etrigan later attempts to use Lucifer's trident to take control of Hell.
A makeshift Shadowpact team successfully takes the Trident from him and
flees to the supernatural Oblivion Bar. Etrigan follows and battles the
team inside the bar. He is turned into stone via magical pistols and is
used as a hat rack. The pistol's magic would return Etrigan to normal at
sunrise, which never happens within the bar.

Etrigan takes part in the war for control of Hell on behalf of Neron,
duelling Blue Devil. Later, due to the effects of a magical drug Satanus
had infested Hell with, he was transformed into a physical human, a
perfect duplicate of Jason Blood. Blood, meanwhile, has taken steps as
to interfere with any possible attempts of Etrigan's to re-merge.

During the Blackest Night, Blood's body is possessed by Deadman, who
invokes Etrigan's transformation, using his flames to hold back the
Black Lanterns.

Etrigan briefly appears in the prelude to the JLA/JSA crossover during
the Brightest Day event. Etrigan travels to Germany in order to find a
crashed meteorite that contains an unconscious Jade, and is drawn into a
confrontation with the Justice League after attacking a squad of German
superheroes. He mocks the League by claiming they are an inferior team
of substitutes, but is ultimately defeated when Donna Troy uses her
Lasso of Persuasion to force him back into his Jason Blood form. Jason
apologizes for the trouble he caused and departs from the scene, but not
before warning Batman and his teammates that the meteorite possesses
supernatural qualities. The meteor is later revealed to be the
Starheart, a legendary entity that has the power to possess metahumans
with magical or elemental abilities.

Etrigan is shown aiding the JLA during their mission into Hell, where he
helps Hawkman defeat a demonic beast. He also was the guide to the
Secret Six in their trip to Hell and led Catman to see the fate of his
father, all the while amused by the confusion and pain they were
suffering as a result of their visit.

The New 52

In The New 52 the 2011 reboot of the  universe, his past and
origins are largely changed. Before the Dark Ages, Etrigan was a rhyming
demon (one not yet good at rhyming) in Lucifer's service and after too
many indignities, he led a rebellion. Lucifer waited until the last
moment before handing him over to Merlin: the two had struck a deal.
Jason of Norwich had been sent to Camelot as a scribe to Merlin and was
growing frustrated with life, believing he was meant for greater things
and suffering from rages. A prophecy showed that if Jason did not have
some sort of quest to force him to heal himself, his rage would grow and
cause him to kill his love, Madame Xanadu; at the Fall of Camelot,
Merlin bonded Etrigan to Jason in an attempt to provide this quest.

Now immortal, Jason and Etrigan came to an agreement and shared their
existence. Madame Xanadu began traveling with Jason only to find Etrigan
had now begun falling for her as well and would slaughter innocents if
he thought she and Jason were happy together. In order to placate the
demon, she pretended to be in love with him and cuckolding Jason.

Over the centuries, Jason became known as Jason o' the Blood and Etrigan
continued to practice his rhymes. By the Dark Ages, he and Etrigan
became the centre of a rag-tag team of adventurers, the "Demon Knights":
Jason/Etrigan, Xanadu, Vandal Savage, Shining Knight, the Horsewoman,
Saracen inventor Al Jabr (The Numbers in Arabic), and the Amazon
Exoristos (The Exile in Greek). They first fought Mordru and the
Questing Queen's army to a standstill, before being tasked by the city
of Alba Sarum to return Merlin to life at Avalon. (Both Jason and
Etrigan were enraged at having missed the chance to get him to separate
them) Etrigan plotted to betray his teammates' souls and Avalon itself
to Lucifer, in order to curry favour. While he successfully
manipulated the Knights into letting Hell invade Avalon (and secretly
felt guilty about his treatment of Xanadu), he was himself captured and
used by the Questing Queen to get access as well. Lucifer believed
Etrigan had done this deliberately and condemned him; outraged, the
demon refused to serve anyone again. At the end of the battle, Jason was
tasked as a member of Avalon's Stormwatch but neither he nor Xanadu
wanted to serve Merlin after having Etrigan forced on them again. Jason
vowed to not let the demon out so often.

In the present, Etrigan's body lies buried in London, it is explained
that he was sealed there by his own friends because of his betrayal of
them, but magic emanating from it is able to possess persons above,
eventually freeing the demon who promptly attacks Apollo and
Midnighter. The entire Stormwatch then battles Etrigan but even
after being defeated, he is able to possess a host and flees.

During the "Trinity War" storyline, Etrigan the Demon is among the
superheroes that feels the disturbance in the magical plane when Shazam
picks up Pandora's Box. In the timeline of The New 52: Futures
End, Zatanna is romantically involved with Etrigan.


Powers and abilities

Etrigan

Even among demons, Etrigan is considered to be extremely powerful. He
has above superhuman strength (mystically enhanced) to the degree that
he can stand against other powerhouses such as Superman, Wonder Woman,
and Lobo. He has a high degree of resistance to injury and can project
hellfire from his body; usually from his mouth. He has a very high
command of magic. Other powers include mystically enhanced fangs and
claws, enhanced senses, super speed, agility, telepathy, energy blasts,
and precognition. His sadomasochistic nature allows him to enjoy pain as
if it were pleasure, making him generally fearless in the face of combat
and torture. His healing factor can handle an incredible amount of
damage, allowing him to recover from wounds that have removed large
sections of his body.

As seen in Batman: The Brave and the Bold, it appears that he also has
some matter manipulation power on a molecular level. His powers can be
extended by other magical devices, such as the Crown of Horns. Etrigan
is also provided with insight to religious aspects and other forbidden
or secret knowledge.

Jason Blood

Jason Blood is a highly skilled hand-to-hand combatant. His skills
include mastery in swordsmanship. Jason is also adept at magic, and is
often called upon to act as an advisor or investigator in occultic
matters (such as in the series Arkham Asylum: Living Hell). He also
has limited precognition and telepathy. Jason is technically immortal as
he is connected to the demon Etrigan. He also has the combined
experiences of all the time since he was bonded to the demon. Jason
Blood unfortunately shares all of Etrigan's weaknesses.

Limitations

Etrigan has all the limitations usually associated with a demon,
including a weakness towards holy powers and iron. Additionally, when
Green Arrow once shot a "fire extinguisher arrow" into his mouth, Batman
told Etrigan that the only way to stop the pain was to change back to
Jason Blood.

His command of magic is strong, but considered to be less than his
father, Belial, and half-brother, Merlin the Magician. Additionally,
Belial granted "power of Etrigan" to both Merlin and another son,
Scapegoat.

He is also helpless against those with powers strong enough to control
Etrigan, such as Morgaine le Fey. Also, Jason Blood has longevity due to
his betrayal of Merlin.


Other versions

Super Friends #28 (January 1980) features a hapless costume-party
guest dressed as Etrigan, enchanted by the sorcerer Felix Faust to
assume the powers and persona of the demon and wage battle with Wonder
Woman. Wonder Woman uses her magic lasso to command the guest to ignore
Faust's commands, breaking the spell.

In the continuity of the  animated universe, Etrigan first appeared in
The Batman Adventures Annual #2, where he teamed up with Batman to
fight against Ra's al Ghul. Jason Blood/Etrigan were also introduced
and fought alongside Batman to stop Klarion from obtaining a magical
artifact in the episode "The Demon Within". Due to his immortality and
friendship with Bruce Wayne, Jason Blood/Etrigan was able to team up
with the future Batman in several issues of the Batman Beyond comic
series, although he never appeared in the actual show. He was featured
in "Magic is Everywhere!" (Batman Beyond mini-series #4, July 1999)
and "Many Flights of Demons Sing Thee to Thy Rest" (Batman Beyond #14,
December 2000).

In Justice League Europe Annual #2, a time-lost Dimitri Pushkin ends
up in the court of Camelot. He becomes a favorite of King Arthur, partly
due to the futuristic capabilities of his armor. Filled with jealousy,
Merlin summons Etrigan, who slays Dimitri with hellfire. This
alternate-past is neutralized by the efforts of Waverider.

In the Speed Demon one-shot, the second Speed Demon (Blaze Allen) is
an amalgamation of the second Flash, the second Ghost Rider, and Etrigan
(Speed Demon even refers to himself as Etrigan). The way Etrigan
empowers Speed Demon is reminiscent of 's Zarathos, a demon
who was bonded to Ghost Rider in a similar manner.

Etrigan appears in The Batman Strikes!_ #50 (December 2008) and
asks Batman and Robin to help him find an ancient artifact stolen by the
Riddler. However, he and Riddler are manipulated by the vengeful Demons
Three into releasing them from the artifact, and attempt to possess
Etrigan. Batman and Robin stop them and return the artifact to Etrigan.
His dialogue in the issue rhymes.

Etrigan appeared in the Superman and Batman vs. Vampires and
Werewolves storyline, aiding Batman and Superman.

In Tangent: Superman's Reign #3, the Etrigan of Earth-9 is revealed to
be a human necromancer, part of the Dark Circle group.

A sketch of an alternate version of Etrigan called "Superdemon" was
featured in Final Crisis: Secret Files #1. Described as a denizen of
Earth-17, Etrigan was sent to Earth by Merlin from the doomed Kamelot,
where he entered the body of Jason Blood, son of a Kansas preacher. Over
time, Jason learned to control the demon's powers, and now uses them to
protect the world.

In the Flashpoint universe, Etrigan and the heroes are running from
the Amazons, until Etrigan is rescued by Canterbury Cricket. The heroes
then hide in the bushes and learn Canterbury Cricket's origins, until
the Amazons breach their hideout. During this same period, Etrigan
joins the Grifter's Resistance. After an ambush by the Furies,
Etrigan is seen eating the Furies member Cheetah. While the Resistance
head to Westminster, Resistance member Miss Hyde betrays them and
contacts the Furies. Etrigan was shot with the magic arrows.
However, Miss Hyde regains control of the body and fights the Amazons,
allowing Etrigan and the Resistance to gain the upper hand.

Kamandi and the Demon appear in "Devil's Play" (2013) written by Joe
Kubert and Brandon Vietti, art by Vietti, published in Joe Kubert
Presents #6.

Etrigan debuts in the fourth chapter of the Year Three Injustice comic
series. He realizes Jason Blood has died when he feels agony, and later
reappears to attack Superman in the Hall of Justice. After getting the
corrupt Man of Steel close enough, he reveals he has made a deal with
Batman in which he becomes Etrigan's new host. The Dark Knight puts
Superman into an enchanted coma.


Collected Editions

  Title                          Material collected                        Year   ISBN
  ------------------------------ ----------------------------------------- ------ ----------------
  Jack Kirby's The Demon       The Demon (1972) #1-16                  2008   978-1401219161
  The Demon: Hell's Hitman     The Demon (1990) #40-48 and Annual #2   2015   978-1401258214
  The Demon: The Longest Day   The Demon (1990) #0, #49-58             2016   978-1401260996


In other media

Television

[Etrigan the Demon in The New Batman Adventures.]

-   Etrigan the Demon has appeared in the  Animated Universe:
    -   The character made a single guest appearance in The New Batman
        Adventures, voiced by Billy Zane. In the episode "The Demon
        Within", Jason Blood is revealed as a friend of Bruce Wayne.
    -   Jason Blood's subsequent appearances are on the Justice League
        animated series and Justice League Unlimited, voiced by
        Michael T. Weiss (primarily) as well as Dee Bradley Baker (baby
        in "Kid's Stuff" albeit uncredited) and Kevin Conroy (adult in
        "Kid's Stuff" albeit uncredited). In former series, his look
        goes through a redesign to more closely resemble his original
        Jack Kirby roots. In the two-part story "A Knight of Shadows",
        his origin was explained in detail: during the siege of Camelot,
        Blood was bound by Merlin to Etrigan as a punishment for
        betraying the kingdom to his secret lover Morgaine Le Fey
        double-crosses him by poisoning him. While Blood, a nobleman,
        has been rendered immortal, he must share his soul with a demon
        for eternity — it is his "curse", the price of
        unforgivable lust. In latter series, he appears as one of the
        many members of the expanded Justice League.
-   Etrigan the Demon appears in Batman: The Brave and the Bold,
    voiced officially by Dee Bradley Baker. Jason Blood is shown as a
    servant of Merlin until Morgaine le Fay took control of him and used
    him to take on Batman and Green Arrow as seen in "Day of the
    Dark Knight!".
-   In the Teen Titans Go!_ episode "BBB Day", a toy Etrigan can be
    seen in the background.
-   Etrigan appears in Justice League: The Flashpoint Paradox shortly
    after Lois Lane is rescued from Amazonians.

Film

Etrigan the Demon appears in Justice League: The Flashpoint Paradox,
with Dee Bradley Baker reprising his role. In the alternate Flashpoint
timeline, Etrigan is a member of the Resistance and he is seen fighting
in the climactic battle between the Amazons and Atlantians.

Video games

-   Etrigan the Demon appears in  Universe Online, voiced by
    Christopher S. Field. He appears as a minor character for heroes
    where he turns them into zombies to infiltrate Felix Faust's ranks,
    and as a boss fight for villains. He also assists player villains
    during the endgame mission.
-   Etrigan the Demon appears as a playable character in Lego Batman 3:
    Beyond Gotham, voiced by Liam O'Brien.

