EXTRAÑO (Spanish for "strange" or "odd") is a fictional magician
published by . He first appeared in Millennium #2 (January
1988), and was created by Steve Englehart and Joe Staton.


Fictional character biography

During the Millennium event, Extraño was part of a group selected by
the Guardians of the Universe to take part in an experiment in human
evolution. Extraño was Peruvian, from Trujillo City, South America. As a
minor magician, his magical powers were heightened by the procedure, and
his fellow participants gained new abilities as well. Together, they
formed the superhero team New Guardians, and took it upon themselves to
fight evil wherever it lurked on Earth.

Outwardly resembling nearly every stereotype of a gay man, Extraño
initially wore loose colorful garments and has a lively, jovial
attitude. He refers to himself as "Auntie" and usually imparts
parent-like advice to his teammates. In reality, he may be the very
first openly gay superhero, a distinction usually attributed to 
Comics' Northstar who, while coming out a few years after Extraño was
introduced, was a much more popular character who existed for ten years
prior and was implied to be gay in those appearances.

Serving as the team's resident magician, he could fire blasts of energy
from his hands, levitate, and perform a large number of "stage
tricks,including ping-pong 'balls'" to outwit his foes. Usually playing
the role of comic relief, his flamboyant behavior was regarded as
everything from funny to hateful by readers. He had an earnest sense of
justice and love of life that made him popular with his teammates.
During The New Guardians' short run, Extraño acquired a powerful
crystal skull (which seemed to greatly amplify his abilities) and a more
traditional, "masculine" superhero costume, perhaps as a reaction to the
comments of readers.

In The New Guardians,_ Extraño helped his team defeat a number of
supervillains while trying his best to assist them with personal
problems. On one mission in particular, he was attacked by an "AIDS
vampire" called the Hemo-Goblin. He was subsequently confirmed to be
HIV-positive but it's unclear whether he was infected by Hemo-Goblin or
had already been infected prior to his introduction. Though he showed no
outward signs of the disease, his infection remained a somewhat
unorthodox plot point. Although the Guardians continued to fight
evildoers behind the scenes even after their comic ended, their island
base was attacked and swallowed up by the villain Entropy in the pages
of Green Lantern. For a time it was assumed Extraño died during this
incident, but the recent reappearance of other New Guardians throws this
into doubt.


Powers and abilities

Being a magician, Extraño has a number of abilities linked to his trade.
Unlike stage parlor tricks, these spells rely on real sorcery and can be
used for a variety of effects.

Category:Fictional gay males Category: characters who use magic
Category:LGBT superheroes Category:Fictional characters with HIV/AIDS
