FASTBACK (real name TIMMY JOE TERRAPIN) is a fictional character in the
 universe, an anthropomorphic turtle. Fastback is a superhero
who lived on the otherdimensional world of Earth-C (now Earth-26), an
alternate Earth populated by sentient animals. His first appearance was
in a special insert in The New Teen Titans #16 (February 1982).


Fictional character biography

While trying to catch a bus to Kornsas City (Earth-C's Kansas City,
Missouri), Timmy Joe Terrapin, a resident of the "Okey-Dokey" swamp
(Earth-C's Okefenoke Swamp) in the American south, found a meteor
fragment lodged in his shell, said fragment launched by Starro the
Conqueror. Ironically, the fragment gave the notoriously slow (both in
mind and body) Timmy Joe superspeed powers. Upon hearing of other
animals across the country endowned with similar powers from other
meteor fragments, Timmy joined them as the superhero "Fastback," and
helped to defeat Starro. Afterwards, Fastback joined the others in
creating the superhero team the Zoo Crew.

Despite his increase in physical speed, Timmy Joe Terrapin was still
quite laid-back in personality and slow-witted. He was a somewhat
stereotypical depiction of an ignorant country bumpkin, but often his
ignorance was more naïveté than stupidity. Furthermore, he is inventive
using his speed to defeat his enemies.

During a time-travel storyline, Fastback was sent back in time to the
Second Weird War, where he discovered his uncle Merton McSnurtle was in
realty the Terrific Whatzit, a Golden Age  funny-animal
superhero.

In Teen Titans #30-31 (December 2005-January 2006), Fastback is
mentioned in a series of pages purporting to be a Zoo Crew comic
published in the mainstream  Universe, and follows the adventures of
the Zoo Crew teammates in a grimmer, darker version of Earth-C,
parodying the recent trend toward "grim and gritty" superhero comics. In
these pages, Fastback is shown to have been sent to the future
unwillingly by an evil feline magician, "Dark Alley," who impersonated
his teammate Alley-Kat-Abra.

In the 2007 miniseries Captain Carrot and the Final Ark, he is
revealed to have been rescued and returned to the present by his
teammates. At the conclusion of that story, he, along with the rest of
the Zoo Crew are stranded on Earth-0, losing both his powers and
humanoid appearance. Both are returned by the Monitor Nix Uotan in the
finale of the Final Crisis.

Fastback later makes an appearance in the 2015 series The Multiversity,
as a member of the army of Flash (comics) analogues summoned from across
the multiverse to free Nix Uotan from the Gentry's control

Fastback is featured in the two issue series 'Flash: Convergence'. While
on a recon, he assists pre-Flashpoint Wally West in saving his adopted
Gotham City from a small army of murderous Amazons.


Powers and abilities

Fastback possesses various superspeed powers, similar to those of the 
Comics superhero Flash. However, it is unknown if his powers are derived
from the Speed Force (though Fastback was included in a montage of
speedsters in Speed Force #1 (November 1997)). Fastback's powers
include the ability to make superspeed-generated afterimages of himself
and (when retracting his body parts inside his shell) launch himself at
foes like a torpedo. His shell is highly resistant to damage, and
Fastback will instinctively draw his head and limbs into his shell when
endangered (though his small tail will often be left exposed). If
necessary, Fastback can remove the shell from his body, and his costume
has an inner section that covers his inner body that are usually
contained by the shell. It is unknown if the unusual strength of
Fastback's shell is a result of his powers or a feature of all turtles
native to Earth-C.

