FIGHTING AMERICAN is a patriotically themed comic book character created
in 1954 by the writer-artist team of Joe Simon and Jack Kirby. Published
by the Crestwood Publications imprint Prize Comics, it was, contrary to
standard industry practices of the time, creator-owned. Harvey Comics
published one additional issue in 1966. One final inventoried tale was
published in 1989, in a  harover collection of all the
Fighting American stories.


Publication history

Bitter that Timely Comics' 1950s iteration, Atlas Comics, had relaunched
their hero Captain America in a new series in 1954, the writer-artist
team of Joe Simon and Jack Kirby created another patriotically themed
character, Fighting American. Simon recalled, "We thought we'd show them
how to do Captain America". While the comic book initially portrayed
the protagonist as an anti-Communist dramatic hero, Simon and Kirby
turned the series into a superhero satire with the second issue, in the
aftermath of the Army-McCarthy hearings and the public backlash against
the Red-baiting U.S. Senator Joseph McCarthy. Simon specified for a
panel audience at the 1974 New York Comic Art Convention that the
character was not so much inspired by Captain America as it was simply a
product of the times.

Simon said in 1989 that he felt the anti-Communist fervor of the era
would provide antagonists who, like the Nazis who fought Captain America
during World War II, would be "colorful, outrageous and perfect foils
for our hero." He went on to say,

Published bimonthly by the Crestwood Publications imprint Prize
Group, Fighting American lasted through issue #7 (May 1955). The
following decade, for Harvey Comics, Simon packaged a single issue of
Fighting American (Oct. 1966) consisting of "reprints and
unpublished material" from the 1950s run, with some changes made to
comply with the since-instituted Comics Code. A final inventoried
Fighting American story, the three-page "The Beef Box", not drawn by
Kirby, appeared in ' 1989 harover collection of the 1950s
and 1960s stories.


Fictional character biography

In the 10-page story "First Assignment: Break the Spy Ring" in Fighting
American #1 (May 1954), Nelson Flagg was the unathletic younger brother
of star athlete and war hero Johnny Flagg, and served as the writer for
popular TV news commentator Johnny at station USA. When outspoken
anti-Communist Johnny is killed by one of the many enemies his
commentary has earned him, Nelson makes a deathbed promise to hunt down
his brother's murderers. Recruited for the U.S. military's "Project
Fighting American", Nelson has his mind and life force transferred to
Johnny's "revitalized and strengthened" corpse. Assuming Johnny's
identity, he adopts the costumed alter ego Fighting American to battle
Communist threats. In the premiere issue's second story, the six-page
"Second Assignment: Track Down the Baby Buzz Bombs", an unnamed,
blond-haired teenager working as a page at Flagg's network assists the
hero and is rewarded with own costume and the name SPEEDBOY.

The two went on to battle an array of mostly Communists grotesqueries
with physical deformities and colorful names, such as the two-headed
criminal Doubleheader, the redheaded battleaxe Rhode Island Red, the
Russian dwarf Sawdoff, the super-smelly Super-Khakhalovitch, the
bouncing bank robber Round Robin, and Invisible Irving, the Great
Nothing.


Powers and abilities

Though not specified, Fighting American's powers are shown to be
increased strength, agility, endurance, and speed. His aging was also
slowed to the point where a fellow WWII vet notes he hasn't "aged a
day."


Alternate versions



In a six-issue miniseries (February–July 1994), published by 
and written by Dave Rawson and Pat McGreal, with art by Greg
LaRocque, the character was a former radio host bent on avenging his
brother's death.

Awesome Entertainment

A two-issue miniseries (August–October 1997) from Awesome Entertainment,
written by Rob Liefeld (story) and Jeph Loeb (script), and penciled by
Liefeld and Stephen Platt, had originally been produced for the "Heroes
Reborn" version of Captain America for . Here, Fighting
American was a retired superhero coping with the death of his partner.
The miniseries came about, Liefeld said in 2007, while he was packaging
a Captain America series for . In early 1997, the company, which
had filed for bankruptcy, asked Liefeld to accept lower payment for his
studio's work. He refused and was removed from the series. Liefeld
called Fighting American co-creator Joe Simon and Roz Kirby, widow of
co-creator Jack Kirby, who agreed to license the character to him, but
at a price Liefeld would not accept. Liefeld created the similar
character Agent America, drawing "maybe three pinups and one poster
image", but withdrew the character, he said, when Simon threatened to
sue. Liefeld negotiated a new deal for Fighting American, but was then
sued by . During the course of the trial, he said, his version of
Fighting American acquired a shield. As one of the terms of the
settlement, however, Fighting American was forbidden from throwing his
shield like a weapon, to distinguish him from Captain America.

In later comics published by Awesome Entertainment, Fighting American
was John Flagg, a former soldier who gained powers through an
unspecified experiment "never to be duplicated." A subsequent
miniseries, Rules of the Game, written by Loeb with art by Ed
McGuinness, reintroduced some of the original Simon & Kirby villains. It
was followed by the miniseries Dogs of War, written by Jim Starlin and
penciled by Platt. While Awesome was legally prohibited from having him
throw the shield, Rules and Dogs showed several additional weapons
are built into it, including multiple spike projectiles, a Gatling gun
and a mini-missile. This version has also used throwing stars tipped
with tranquilizers.

Dynamite Entertainment

In 2009, Dynamite Entertainment's Nick Barrucci announced his company
would publish the character with creative contributions from artist
Alex Ross, although character co-creator Joe Simon contended he
never gave his approval, saying, "There are some penciled covers of
Fighting American by Mr. Ross that are printed in the story without
copyright notice. I find that damaging, as is the whole fake story."
Kirby-estate attorney Paul S. Levine countered that Simon's attorney,
Tedd Kessler, had been informed and approving of Fighting American
negotiations involving Barrucci "from the very beginning", including the
drafting of contracts among Dynamite, the Kirby estate, and Simon, which
were unsigned at the time of Barrucci's announcement. Following this
disagreement between Simon and Barrucci, the Kirby estate withdrew its
own participation.

