FRANKENSTEIN is a  character who is based on Mary
Wollstonecraft Shelley's original Frankenstein's monster, but is
physically more reminiscent of the classic Universal representation of
the character. He was created in 1948 by Edmond Hamilton and Bob Kane in
a Batman Detective Comics story.

A later reworking was developed by Len Wein as the Spawn of
Frankenstein concept. The monster fell under the thrall of Count
Dracula. They often battled against Superman, Batman, or the Phantom
Stranger.

Frankenstein's latest revamping was created by Grant Morrison and Doug
Mahnke in 2005 and is similar to Doc Frankenstein. He is one of the
Seven Soldiers, and bears a resemblance to the creature as portrayed by
Boris Karloff in the 1931 film directed by James Whale.


Fictional character biography

Frankenstein is an undead body composed of parts from several corpses
stitched together, created by Victor Frankenstein some time in the 19th
century. He was assumed dead in Europe when he sank beneath the ice, but
he survived and swam to America, having 'many adventures'. He was
revived by Victor Adam, and vowed vengeance for restoring him to life,
successfully killing him, but accidentally bringing about a coma for
Doctor Thirteen's wife, Maria, in the process. In particular,
Frankenstein became a frequent enemy of Melmoth, who he referred to as
the Ringmaster of the Circus of Maggots. In a climactic battle in the
year 1870, Frankenstein faced Melmoth and stopped him from destroying a
town with maggot-hominids. The fight took place on a moving train, which
was derailed during the conflict, and Frankenstein's fate was unknown.

In 2005, a high school student, called 'Uglyhead' by all the other
children, acquires telepathic abilities through contact with the Sheeda,
which he uses to torment his peers. At the senior prom, the now-docile
students are killed by the Sheeda maggot-hominids. This causes the
return of Frankenstein, who had survived in a state of hibernation
underneath the town, who makes short work of the maggots and the boy,
before burning down the school to cover the bodies. Afterwards,
Frankenstein tracks down Melmoth and makes his way to Mars through an
"Erdel Gate" (a reference to Dr. Saul Erdel who first transported the
Martian Manhunter to Earth). On Mars, the Monster confronts Melmoth once
again. Frankenstein frees the children Melmoth has enslaved to work in
his gold mines, and feeds Melmoth to the flesh-eating, praying
mantis-like horses of Mars. Before he is consumed, Melmoth reveals that
it was not lightning that brought the monster to life, but several drops
of his own immortal blood, sold to Frankenstein's creator, that still
course through Frankenstein's veins.

In the third issue of the series, Frankenstein meets an old acquaintance
greatly resembling the "Bride" in James Whale's Bride of Frankenstein,
albeit with two extra arms grafted onto her by the Red Swami, a
supervillain who brainwashed her into thinking she was the reincarnation
of an assassin goddess. She is now an agent of the Super Human
Advanced Defense Executive (S.H.A.D.E.), a secret government agency,
which temporarily drafts Frankenstein as well. Of their previous
relationship, she says, "It's nothing personal, but you were never my
type."

In the final issue, he stows away on a time-ship which brings him to the
Sheeda realm in the distant future. There, he destroys their
world-destroying fleet, kills the Sheeda-Queen's time-yacht's steersman,
and hijacks her ship to the present. Once in the present, though,
Klarion gains control of Frankenstein using a witch-brand and forces him
to take the castle back to the future.

He appears briefly in Infinite Crisis #7, which takes place one week
after the Frankenstein miniseries. He is seen fighting against General
Wade Eiling. Frankenstein is armed with a three-foot-long sword, which
he claims once belonged to the Archangel Michael, and a large antique
pistol, which he calls his 'steam-gun'.

A character called Young Frankenstein has appeared in Teen Titans as a
member of the team during the "Lost Year" covered by 52. Young
Frankenstein is apparently killed by Black Adam during WWIII, but
actually survives as shown in the Infinite Halloween Special and
Countdown to Mystery #2.

Frankenstein and S.H.A.D.E appear in Final Crisis #3, also written by
Grant Morrison. He again appears two issues later, leading a squad of
superheroes against Darkseid's forces, who are led by Kalibak. He is
also seen in the final issue fighting in humanity's last stand before
Superman gets the Miracle Machine working. Frankenstein is immune to
Darkseid's weapon, the Anti-Life Equation, because he is already dead.

Frankenstein confronts Solomon Grundy in the latter's current limited
series, and again during the Blackest Night. Grundy, having been
transformed into a Black Lantern, rips out Frankenstein's heart, but,
due to having an extra one in his chest, Frankenstein survives this
attack.

As part of The New 52 (a reboot of the  universe), a new
ongoing series Frankenstein, Agent of S.H.A.D.E._ was released, based
on the Seven Soldiers version of Frankenstein. It was initially written
by Jeff Lemire and drawn by Alberto Ponticelli. Matt Kindt and Alberto
Ponticelli replaced them with issue 10 and stayed with the book until it
was cancelled with issue 16.  The character later joins the
Justice League Dark.


Powers and abilities

Frankenstein is undead, composed of assorted body parts taken from
dozens of different sources.

Frankenstein has superhuman strength, does not need to eat or sleep, and
is functionally immortal. He has mental access to the S.H.A.D.E.
database via a surgical implant.

Because of his undead nature, Frankenstein can replace damaged or
missing limbs with crafts taken from individuals of similar build and
adapt it to his unique physiology. 


Other versions

Flashpoint

In the alternate timeline of the Flashpoint event, Frankenstein was
awakened during World War II and attacks Nazi soldiers to save Lt.
Matthew Shrieve. Later, Frankenstein is invited by Project M to join the
Creature Commandos. Leading a raid with the Creature Commandos,
Frankenstein personally killed Adolf Hitler. After the end of World War
II, however, Project M was deemed obsolete by Robert Crane's government
services. Frankenstein refuses to accept, but is subdued and put into
stasis by the G.I. Robot. Later, Frankenstein and the Creature Commandos
revive and escape from their prison and discover they have been awakened
over 65 years later. Frankenstein and the Creature Commandos travel
to Gotham City, where Dr. Mazursky might live and believe him to be
alive. The Creature Commandos found Dr. Mazursky's cabin, however they
discover that Dr. Mazursky has moved to Romania, when Creature Commandos
are ultimately ambushed by Matthew Shrieve's granddaughter, Miranda and
a group of soldiers. Frankenstein attacks the soldiers, but he was
sprung by the G.I. Robot to be subdued again. Creature Commandos saved
Frankenstein by tearing the G.I. Robot apart. During the attacks,
Creature Commandos are saved by Frankenstein's wife, who is eventually
alive. Bride explains to her husband that she is working as an agent
of S.H.A.D.E.. Later, Frankenstein and the Creature Commandos then
travel to Romainia with Miranda, who was being manipulated by General
Sam Lane, who is revealed to be the one truly responsible for the deaths
of Miranda's family. They arrive in Romania, where they found a small
village populated by monsters. The village is then attacked by a giant
G.I. Robot. After they destroy the G.I. Robot, Frankenstein, Bride and
Miranda depart from the Creature Commandos and participate in the
Atlantean/Amazon war.


In other media

Television

-   Frankenstein appears in The World's Greatest Super Friends episode
    "The Super Friends Meet Frankenstein." He is one of the creations
    of Dr. Frankenstein (this one being a descendant of
    Victor Frankenstein) who uses his monsters to terrorize a local
    village enough for the Super Friends to be called in to investigate.
    When Batman and Robin attack Frankenstein's monster, Dr.
    Frankenstein ordered his monster to lure Batman and Robin to
    Frankenstein's Castle in order to trap them. When Batman and Robin
    short circuit Frankenstein's monster, Dr. Frankenstein arrives and
    traps them while thanking them for giving him an idea for his next
    creation more powerful than the original one.

Video Games

-   Frankenstein appears as a playable character in Lego Batman 3:
    Beyond Gotham, voiced by Fred Tatasciore.


Collected Editions

-   Showcase Presents: Phantom Stranger Vol. 2 includes Frankenstein
    stories from Phantom Stranger (Vol. 2) #22-30. 1-4012-1088-0
-   Frankenstein, Agent of S.H.A.D.E. Vol. 1: War of the Monsters
    (Frankenstein, Agent of S.H.A.D.E. #1-7)
-   Frankenstein, Agent of S.H.A.D.E. Vol. 2: Secrets of the Dead
    (Frankenstein, Agent of S.H.A.D.E. #0, #8-16)

