FREEDOM BEAST is a fictional comic book character in the  Universe.


Fictional character biography

A South African by birth, Freedom Beast was born DOMINIC MNDAWE. His
first appearance was in Animal Man #13. That issue takes place during
the rule of apartheid in South Africa; Dominic was under arrest for
taking pictures of racially motivated acts of violence being committed
by white Afrikaner policemen. In a cell, Dominic was about to be killed
by his captors when he is rescued by Animal Man and B'wana Beast (Mike
Maxwell), Mndawe's predecessor and future mentor.

After the rescue, Maxwell gives Mndawe the elixir and helmet that confer
powers on their owner. The two briefly had a disagreement as Mndawe was
adamant to continue his political resistance to the South African
government and its policy of apartheid with while Maxwell was insistent
that the calling is apolitical. However, they eventually reconciled on
this point and Mndawe continued pursuing his political objectives which
he justified with the personal maxim, "Tomorrow's mythology is Today's
politics.".

His powers include mind control and the ability to fuse two or more
animals into one hybrid beast under the control of Freedom Beast.

Animal Man and Freedom Beast then prevent the massacre of a group of
peaceful demonstrators by Afrikaner police. Animal Man returns to the
USA, while Maxwell and Freedom Beast stayed in South Africa.

Mike Maxwell returns in Animal Man #47 (May 1992). He had been taken
over by an evil force called the Antagon and transformed into the
Shining Man. He perishes in the ensuing battle.

Animal Man and Dominic team up once again during the Day of Judgement
incident, protecting African wildlife from the murderous intentions of
demon invaders.

Further appearances

Freedom Beast's most recent appearances were in the Day of Vengeance
Infinite Crisis Special, where he is possessed by Rage, one of the
Seven Deadly Sins. He is also seen at the gathering of mystics at
Stonehenge in Infinite Crisis #6.

Freedom Beast reappears as South Africa's representative in the reformed
Global Guardians in Green Lantern v4 #11 and 14–17. However, he and
his teammates are brainwashed by the Faceless Hunter and used as weapons
against Green Lantern (Hal Jordan). The Global Guardians are eventually
freed, and Freedom Beast returns with them in Checkmate v2 #24 and
29–31.

In Final Crisis #4, Freedom Beast is seen fighting off a controlled
Gorilla Grodd on Watchtower 4 in Gorilla City

In issue #1 of Justice League: Cry for Justice, Freedom Beast is
killed by minions of Prometheus. Dominic's partner Congorilla discovers
his dying friend and vows to find justice for his murder. Prometheus is
subsequently killed by Green Arrow in issue #7 of the same series.

In Justice League of America #60, Congorilla mentions that he still
has Dominic's helmet and elixir in his possession. Seeking to honor the
memory of his old friend, Congorilla ultimately resigns from the Justice
League and sets out to find a worthy candidate to become the new Freedom
Beast. In Justice League International #1 a character alongside
Congorilla appears wearing the mask, referencing Congorilla has found a
successor. The identity of this character is currently unknown.

Post-Flashpoint

In the rebooted New 52 continuity, Freedom Beast is once again alive. He
makes his debut in the new continuity when he comes to America to take
down a hunting club that has created a synthetic version of his elixir.
He teams up with Midnighter to free the captured animals and bring down
the hunters.

