GANGBUSTER is a comic book fictional character, a  superhero.
He first appeared as JOSE DELGADO in Adventures of Superman #428 (May
1987), and as Gangbuster in Adventures of Superman #434 (November
1987). He was created by Marv Wolfman and Jerry Ordway.


Fictional character biography

Jose Delgado grew up in the Metropolis area known as Suicide Slum. As he
grew older he became a skilled boxer. He went into teaching and ended up
as a high school teacher in Metropolis. He became a mentor to Jerry
White (the son of Perry White). When Lex Luthor enlisted youth gangs
into organized crime under his control, Jose adopted the identity of
Gangbuster to deal with the threat posed to the teenagers in his
community. [The Combattor fighting Gangbuster as drawn by Jerry
Ordway in Adventures of Superman #437.] Jose Delgado suffered a spinal
injury while saving Lois Lane's life during a fight with a creature
called Combattor (Ironically, Luthor had secretly created Combattor with
the intention of framing Superman for the damage caused in Combattor's
rampage, but Gangbuster's efforts not only contained Combattor but
caused him to collapse when the implants that gave him his strength had
negative consequences on his health). Delgado was hospitalized and
talked into retiring by Cat Grant. He recovered the ability to walk with
the assistance of a LexCorp cybernetic implant, similar to the implant
later used on Maximum from the Supermen of America.

Delgado later discovered someone else was masquerading as Gangbuster,
and using much more violent methods. This turned out to be an amnesiac
Superman, who was suffering from a nervous breakdown after a fight with
Brainiac.

After recovering Delgado discovered that the implant which enabled him
to walk was a LexCorp invention, and that Lex Luthor could use it to
take control of his body. Luthor forced Gangbuster to attack an ally of
Superman's named Professor Emil Hamilton. Hamilton was later able to
successfully alter the implant, allowing Jose to take control of his
life again. Delgado's life later fell apart and he had trouble keeping
jobs.

Delgado had limited personal relationships with Cat Grant. They became
very close while he served as her bodyguard, but he did not get along
with her young son Adam. Delgado resumed his career as Gangbuster
following Superman's apparent death at the hands of Doomsday. He got
into trouble when he broke up a drug deal only to discover that it was
part of an undercover police operation. Pursued by the police, he went
on the run.

An ultraviolent Gangbuster later showed up in Black Lightning's hometown
of BRICK CITY. Black Lightning discovered that this wasn't the real
Gangbuster, but a shapechanger named Ishmael, an operative of Tobias
Whale. The real Jose Delgado Gangbuster soon showed up and later
helped him defeat Ishmael.

Gangbuster returned in issue #1 of the weekly mini-series known as
Trinity. In issue #5 he debuted an updated version of his body armor
with a portable arsenal of non-lethal weaponry. He was forced out of
retirement by witnessing the kidnapping of mystic Tarot (to whom he
appointed himself guardian). At the end of the series, with reality
returned to normal, Gangbuster and Tarot began a relationship.

Jose soon tracked Tarot to the castle headquarters of Despero, Morgana
Le Fey and the villain known as Enigma. He and Hawkman infiltrated the
castle and spend days fighting through its denizens, as time and space
were much different inside from outside. They rescued Tarot from a trio
of stone monsters.

In the Supergirl series, Gangbuster and Dr. Light (Kimiyo Hoshi)—both
employees of S.T.A.R. Labs—help Supergirl rescue her friend Lana Lang
after her body is possessed by the Insect Queen.

Gangbuster and Dr. Light investigate an object that crashes into a
Metropolis park and leaves a massive crystallized crater in its center.
While searching the crater, the two heroes discover a Bizarro
Supergirl. The Bizarro Supergirl takes Gangbuster and Dr. Light
hostage, but is ultimately defeated in battle by the real
Supergirl.


Powers and abilities

Jose Delgado has no superpowers but is a skilled boxer and martial
artist. When Jose was crippled on duty as the Gangbuster, he was forced
to accept Lex Luthor's agreement and treatment to return the function of
his legs to him using cybernetic enhancement. However, Luthor's
cybernetic components also allowed him to control Jose's movement if
necessary.


Other versions

In the alternate "Trinity" universe, Gangbuster is one of the few
entities to recognize and understand reality is not as it should be. He
allies himself with that universe's version of Alfred Pennyworth.

