(Dec. 1992) |creators=Chuck Dixon |aliases= Anarky, Red Robin |powers=
Military historian and genius tactician;
Skilled hand to hand combatant;
Skilled in the use of small arms, as well as the creation and use of
bombs and other explosive materials. |cat=super |subcat=
|villain=y |sortkey=General }} THE GENERAL (ULYSSES HADRIAN ARMSTRONG)
is a fictional character appearing in the  universe. Created by
Chuck Dixon as an opponent for Batman, the character first appeared in
Detective Comics #654, published in December 1992. Named for the
character's gimmick for military strategy and prowess with small arms,
stories involving the character often include historic military
references and themes.

Initially portrayed as a dangerously psychopathic, murderous adolescent,
the tone of the General was changed by Dixon himself for later
appearances. Return appearances featured the character in issues of
Robin during the mid-1990s, in which Dixon portrayed the character as
pompous and childish, rather than maliciously insane. Though still
occasionally dangerous and lethal, the graphic violence of the
character's criminal behavior was also toned down.

The character experienced a prolonged period of obscurity after 1997,
lasting over ten years, until Fabian Nicieza chose to revamp the
character for the concluding story arc of the Robin comic book series
in the final months of 2008. With Nicieza's intention being to establish
the character as an archenemy for Tim Drake, the General was once again
characterized as a major threat in the "Batman Family" pantheon of
villains. Recast as a new version of another obscure character, Anarky,
Armstrong was also re-characterized with a new "Anarky" themed costume.


Publication history

Creation and first appearance

The General was created by Chuck Dixon in 1992. Ulysses Hadrian
Armstrong is a psychotic child with the mind of a military genius. Bored
with his life at a military school, he reads books about military
history. Ulysses later escapes his school, burning down the school and
killing everyone inside, acts of arson and mass murder, to avoid
alerting authorities to his escape. He goes to Gotham City to recruit
small-time gang members into a makeshift "army". Utilizing military
skills, Armstrong's reputation gains him the nickname "the General".
Continuing a campaign to become a powerful crime boss of Gotham, the
General conquers and absorbs enemy gangs into a sizable force. Laying
siege to a police station with the intent of capturing the storage room
full of guns and illegal drugs, with which to fund future activities, he
is confronted by Batman. Once captured by Batman, the General's
undisciplined army scatters in fear, and the General himself is sent to
a youth detention center.

Mid 1990s appearances in Robin

Between 1995 and 1997, the General appeared in a total of three story
arcs in issues of the Robin comic book series.

The General manipulated delusional homeless derelict, Julie Caesar, who
believed himself to be the historical Julius Caesar.

The General teamed up with Toyman, but this partnership ended in mutual
betrayal.

The General was given control as commander-in-chief of a country's
military.

2008 revamp as "Anarky"

[The costume design for the new Ulysses H. Armstrong version of Anarky,
as depicted on promotional art for Robin #182, part of the "Faces of
Evil" event. Art by Brian Stelfreeze.] The General appeared at the end
of 2008 in Robin #177, "Search for a Hero" storyline that deals with
the Batman R.I.P. aftermath, Battle for the Cowl. Within the
storyline, he is revealed to disguised as Red Robin.

After a very long absence, the General has returned to Gotham City,
having aged several years, grown several feet and has become a more
formidable hand-to-hand combatant. He physically appears closer in age
to Robin and Spoiler. He has for reasons yet unknown been hired by
Spoiler to gather information about the Gang Wars, and find a possible
solution to them. He continues to hold a grudge against Robin and
betrays Spoiler. Spoiler survives a gunshot to the shoulder, and then
distracts him long enough to get the drop on him and escape. 
 

He comes into possession of the Red Robin costume worn by Jason Todd,
and uses it as part of a campaign of psychological warfare against Tim
Drake. More formidable than ever, he's revealed to be holding Lonnie
Machin hostage and to have commandeered the latter's identity as Anarky.
Where Machin's approach as Anarky had been to cause social change,
Armstrong's approach bordered more on psychotic and meaningless acts of
chaos and destruction.

Armstrong manages to catch Robin in his warehouse, yet Robin escapes
through unknown means, but not without sustaining serious burns to his
head. Soon after, a final confrontation ensues, where Anarky attempts to
kill all of Gotham City's Gangs, so as to create more violence. The
combined efforts of Robin, Spoiler, Commissioner Gordon, Officer Harper
and the Gotham Gangs results in Armstrong's defeat. However, not without
a price. In order to take the edge off of Armstrong, Robin asked Officer
Harper to bring the Armstrong Family to confront Ulysses. While the
action worked, Armstrong caused a bomb to explode, killing his brother
and sister in the blast. Armstrong blames Robin for their deaths.


Skills and resources

Military strategy and deception

The General is a military and strategic genius. He has vast knowledge of
military history, and his careful planning are what earned him the
respect of his henchmen. Sometimes he fools adults into
false senses of security in order to attack them. Sometimes he
tricks adults into letting him control armies

Armed and unarmed combat

Growing up, he gains a muscular build and a lesser degree of martial
arts knowledge, not nearly enough to best seasoned fighters like Robin,
but quite formidable nevertheless.

He retains his penchant for historical weapons, and in his brief stint
as the Red Robin he's shown using a Mauser as his sidearm of
preference.

Costumes

He likes to play dress up, changing several costumes and identities in
his career. Starting from a simple military themed
garb, he then adopted the Red Robin suit, discarded from a
dimension hopping Jason Todd, using the Bat-Family themed identity to
pave off for his return as the new Anarchy.

As Anarchy he uses a modified version of the original Anarky suit,
adapted to fit his broader and sturdier physical build and with an
angrier mask 

Explosives expertise

Both as Red Robin, both as Anarky, Adrian is shown able to create and
set complex explosive traps, drawing Tim Drake in a mined warehouse and
managing to wound him seriously. As Anarky he wears a special cane with
remote controller trigger, making him able to detonate explosives
carefully hidden through the battlefield.


Other versions

-   Legends of the Dark Knight #55-57, set in the near-future,
    features an adult Ulysses Armstrong as one of a number of crime
    bosses contacted by Vigil, Inc., a corrupt private police force
    which is actually a protection racket for criminals. This adult
    version of the General wears modern military gear, rather than the
    historic costumes of his younger self, and surrounds himself with
    women who have general's stars tattooed on their
    foreheads.

