GLOSS is a fictional superhero published by . She first
appeared in Millennium #2 (January 1988), and was created by Steve
Engelhart and Joe Staton.


Fictional character biography

The creators of the Green Lantern Corps, the Guardians, had planned to
create their successors, a race of new Guardians on Earth, so one of
their number met a female alien called a Zamaron. The two channeled
their powers into the "Millennium Project," gathering ten individuals
together, teaching them about the nature of the cosmos, and endowing
them with immortality and metahuman powers. One of these was a young
woman from China named Xiang Po, to whom the Guardians gave the power to
draw energy from the Earth's "Dragon Lines" (or ley lines). She
became Gloss (and a redhead), and joined the other heroes the Guardians
had made in the team named the NEW GUARDIANS. When the then powerless
Guy Gardner comes to the team's island home in order to take over, she
becomes so disgusted with his crass ways she ends up throwing him far
into the ocean.

Gloss was originally on a mission to pass on her enhanced DNA to her
offspring, and was seeking a suitable mate, but she abandoned her quest
when the team disbanded.

Gloss is briefly seen in issue number 50 of the maxi-series "52". Gloss,
along with other superpowered beings including Manticore and Tasmanian
Devil, are seen knocked down after a battle with the rage maddened Black
Adam.

One Year Later

In the events of One Year Later, Gloss is now a Global Guardian, and
follows her former teammate Jet, who is now team leader. She is
killed by Prometheus, who slew her along with several of her fellow
Global Guardians.


Powers and abilities

-   Gloss has immortality and the power to draw energy from the Dragon
    Lines (Ley Lines) of the Earth.
-   These lines of mystic power infuse her with incredible strength and
    make her incredibly durable.
-   She can command the Dragon Lines, manipulating the Earth's energy to
    create earthquakes and affect local ecosystems.

