G'NORT (pronunciation: "nort") ESPLANADE G'NEESMACHER is a fictional
character, a  superhero created by Keith Giffen and J. M.
DeMatteis during their Justice League period.

G'nort was a member of the Green Lantern Corps and later a Darkstar.
He resembles a humanoid dog and is thoroughly incompetent and generally
disliked by other heroes; in fact, he is usually portrayed as being a
loser and used as comic relief. He was a member of the Justice League
Antarctica. Despite his comedic appearance, he has become something of a
cult favorite among comic book readers.


Fictional character biography

Hal Jordan explains that G'nort became a Green Lantern due to the
influence of his relative who was a famous member of the Lantern
Corps. Despite his obviously limited intelligence (not intelligent
enough to read a map) and profoundly lacking tactical judgment, the
character is consistently depicted as brave, loyal, and honorable. This
fact is overlooked by most heroes, although Superman has pointed it out
on occasion.

Early in his career, G'nort becomes inadvertently mixed up with the
League's battle against the Manhunters. Recognizing G'Nort's general
incompetence, the Corps had given him an uninhabited sector of space to
patrol. The fact that the region was uninhabited also suited the needs
of the Manhunters, who set up their home planet in G'Nort's sector.
G'Nort joined Hal Jordan, Superman, and other Justice League members in
an assault on the home world, although G'Nort's main contribution was
getting stuck in the planet's ventilation system.

Working with the League

Gnort's arch enemy, the Scarlet Skier (a take-off of 's Silver
Surfer), is described as being the only felon G'nort ever managed to
apprehend in his entire career. Also an idiot, the Skier was mistaken
for a pan handling homeless person when traveling in the subway.

G'nort goes on a mission to rescue Mister Miracle from the interstellar
trader Manga Khan. Traveling in a spaceship, G'nort works with Big
Barda, Martian Manhunter, and Dmitri of the Rocket Reds. They chase down
Khan and survive an assassination attempt by his hired killer Lobo.

Both G'nort and the Skier were founding members of Justice League
Antarctica, created by Maxwell Lord for the purpose of keeping both them
and the reformed Injustice League out of his way.

The League, including G'nort, find their Antarctic headquarters
overwhelmed by killer penguins. Their enemies are ultimately destroyed,
but not before the facility itself gets demolished. G'Nort keeps himself
and his new-found allies alive via his power-ring until help arrives.

G'nort assists the League, this time consisting of Manhunter, Crimson
Fox and Ice, when Mr. Nebula, the Skier's old boss, turns his dangerous,
cosmic-powered attention to Earth. Fortunately Mr. Nebular saw the
garishness of Las Vegas and thought Earth had the same taste as he and
thus left.

G'nort sees himself as a "Green-Lantern-at-large", not bound to a single
space sector. His most successful mission (apart from capturing the
Skier) has been when a gang of interstellar bank-robbing humanoid cats
surrender as soon as he appears.

Qward battle

Eventually it is discovered that both G'nort and his uncle G'newman were
actually given their rings by the Poglachians, who posed as the
Guardians of the Universe while the real Guardians were with the
Zamarons. A race of clowns, the Poglachians gave the rings to beings
they thought would use them in amusing ways. They were actually pawns of
the Weaponers of Qward, who hoped to discredit the Green Lantern Corps
by having the name associated with idiots. G'nort works with Guy
Gardner, ending up in Qward itself, though G'nort loses his
Qwardian-powered ring. Their confrontations against a Qwardian Sinestro
cult goes badly. Faced with the threat of his beloved uncle being
killed, G'nort gives up the location of Hal Jordan.

Soon after, powerless but free from a Qwardian cell, G'nort smells the
soldier who took his ring and tracks him down. The soldier swiftly
overpowers G'nort and makes the mistake of bragging how he would kill
and torture Guy. Enraged, G'nort defeats the soldier, gains his ring and
saves Guy by destroying the source of his very own power. The two make
it back to normal space as explosions devastate the local area.
Afterwards, Guy Gardner reluctantly tells the real Guardians that G'nort
was the true hero on Qward, which earned G'nort status as a genuine
Green Lantern. Around this time G'Nort is kicked out of the League
and meets up with a struggling street musician whom he takes to calling
'Sax Girl'. He saves her from a life of homelessness and they have
multiple adventures together. They part on friendly terms, with a
kiss. He has other adventures on his own, such as battling several
supervillains who pretend to terrorize a small town for a cut of tourism
dollars.

Post-League

G'nort presumably lost his ring during Emerald Twilight and subsequently
(like many former Lanterns) joined the Darkstars. He still wears his
Darkstar uniform long after the organization collapses, when he is
captured by Manga Khan, who attempts to trade him to Maxwell Lord in
exchange for L-Ron. The entire situation goes badly, resulting in the
near-destruction of Earth. G'Nort is set free after Maxwell Lord and Sue
Dibny hold Khan for ransom. L-Ron returns with Khan. He is persuaded to
form a 'Super Buddies Of Antarctica' branch and is seen trying to hitch
a ride.

G'nort was seen as the sole member of Super Buddies Antarctica, exactly
where Maxwell Lord wants him. For a time, G'Nort lives behind Guy
Gardner's New York 'Warriors' bar. He appeared later in the
mini-series "Guy Gardner: Collateral Damage", where his homeworld had
been destroyed by the Rann-Thanagar War. The character was portrayed
more serious in this story, suffering heavily from the loss of his
family.

As of Green Lantern: Sinestro Corps Secret Files & Origins #1, G'nort
is listed as "Presumed Dead." When asked whether G'nort would be
making an appearance as a member of the Black Lantern Corps during
Blackest Night at San Diego Comic Con 2009, Geoff Johns replied that
the character was not dead and was still considered missing in
action.

In the final events of the "Wrath of the First Lantern" storyline in The
New 52, G'nort finally appears. He helps prevent the Red Lanterns from
attacking the Green Lantern Corps during the battle against the
villainous First Lantern.

Larfleeze

G'nort reappears in response to a distress call made by the robot
inhabitants of a planet seized by Larfleeze. Their rings mutually
determine that Larfleeze and G'nort are cousins and G'nort becomes
Larfleeze's sidekick.


Other versions

I Can't Believe It's Not the Justice League

In the alternate dimension visited by the Super Buddies in I Can't
Believe It's Not the Justice League, the dimension is populated by
twisted counterparts of the main universe characters. There, G'nort is a
rampaging flea-infested giant whose body is used as a battleground.

Justice League Unlimited

In the Justice League Unlimited comic spin-off G'nort starts his
career as a regular Green Lantern Cadet, nephew of the famous G'Newt but
lacking any skills and talents. He is brought to Qward by John Stewart
along with other Lanterns to stop Sinestro's last plan to destroy Oa by
flaring over the planet with antimatter bursts. Despite Boodikka's
prejudices against a rookie, G'nort is able to hold his own on combat,
and uncover G'Newt himself as Sinestro's partner and accomplice. The
Guardians, impressed by his courage, grant him the former sector of the
deposed G'Newt to patrol.

Planetary

In an alternate universe ruled by evil versions of the 'Planetary'
heroes, G'Nort is one of the many dead Green Lanterns on display in the
Planetary headquarters.


In other media

Television

-   G'nort appears in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold episode "The
    Eyes of Despero" voiced by Alexander Polinsky. He, Sinestro, and Guy
    Gardner work with Batman to stop Despero. His backstory is the same
    as originally presented in the comics, as Sinestro mentions G'nort's
    uncle had "pushed" him through Lantern training. Though G'nort is
    initially presented as somewhat incompetent, he proves vital in
    helping Batman stop the brainwashed Mogo by draining Mogo's internal
    Lantern Battery. Despite forgetting the Green Lantern oath necessary
    to begin the process, he comes through upon consulting the "cheat
    sheet" written on his arm. After Batman compliments him twice and
    helps G'nort earn the respect of the Corps, he jumps into his arms
    to lick him, only to get a reprimand ("No licking."). G'Nort makes a
    non-speaking cameo in the episode "Revenge of The Reach", wherein he
    is blasted by the mind-controlled Blue Beetle.

Non-fiction

-   G'Nort's career is examined in 'Green Lantern And Philosophy'.
-   G'Nort receives a paragraph in 'Planet Dog: A Doglopedia'.

