GRACE CHOI is a fictional character, a superhero published by .
She first appeared in Outsiders (vol. 3) #1 (August 2003), and was
created by Judd Winick and Tom Raney.


Fictional character biography

Origin

Grace Choi is a tall Asian-American woman with metahuman strength who
sports tattoos styled along Pacific First Nations lines on both of her
arms and a circular sun design around her navel.

Grace's history was explored in detail in the "Outsiders: Most Wanted"
arc, in which it was revealed that she was one of the surviving victims
of a prostitution ring that exploited abducted and runaway children as
its "merchandise." Upon reaching puberty, Grace used her then-nascent
metahuman powers to escape, and spent the next several years living
independently, until her recruitment into the Outsiders.

Though initially the source of Grace's powers was not revealed, when the
team was captured by the Brain and Monsieur Mallah in Outsiders (vol.
3) #39, they noted that Grace has been enhanced more than "her kind"
usually is. The Outsiders were confused by that remark, leading Mallah
to laugh and comment: "You mean they don't know what you are?" Later,
Grace's Amazon lineage was revealed.

Joining the Outsiders

In her first appearance in Outsiders (vol. 3) #1, she was the bouncer
for the metahuman nightclub Chaney's in Metropolis; Arsenal recruited
her for the newly formed Outsiders. She and Arsenal were old friends but
she was not very keen on joining until he told her the Outsiders job
would pay her three times more than her bouncer job.

"One Year Later"

Grace Choi remains a member of the Outsiders, and assisted in toppling
the regime of Mali. She gets along quite well with the team's newest
member, Captain Boomerang II, and the two have been involved in the
somewhat questionable interrogation of some soldiers, involving torture.
It has been revealed that Grace has been secretly involved in a
relationship with Thunder (Anissa Pierce). After an unsuccessful mission
in North Korea involving Checkmate, Nightwing hands over the Outsiders
to Batman, who elects to decide on his own roster culminating in 
Comics' relaunch of the Batman and the Outsiders title.

Grace features in the Amazons Attack limited series where during an
attack on the United States by the Amazons, she encounters the Bana
Amazons. One of its members tells her that she is actually part of their
tribe, the explanation for earlier allusions by others to "her kind."
This did not entirely explain Grace's metahuman powers, however, as the
Bana Amazons have only peak human level strength and conditioning while
their Themyscirian Amazon cousins possess true metahuman strength. In
the aftermath of the war, Batman assigns Wonder Woman and Grace to a
cleanup mission which serves as an audition for his new Outsiders
roster. Grace identifies herself as half-Amazonian and displays a deep
knowledge of Bana-Mighdall history. Batman and Wonder Woman accept that
she is a Bana, and it is confirmed when Grace successfully handles a
bomb engineered so that only women with Bana DNA might control it.
Diana and Grace end their joint mission describing each other as
cousins.

Grace was briefly shown working alongside the Birds of Prey when they
attempted to stop a group of villains from killing the Secret Six and
taking Neron's "Get Out of Hell Free" card from them.

Pleased with her performance, Batman welcomes Grace as the final member
of his Outsiders. Despite being angry that Thunder "washed out" during
Batman's try-outs and has been excluded from the team, she accepts. She
then invites Thunder back onto the team without Batman's permission.
Following the apparent death of Bruce Wayne, the Outsiders fall into a
trap set by Simon Hurt, and most of the team members are severely
injured. The group is disbanded shortly thereafter, and is replaced by a
new team of Outsiders.

Some time later, Grace shows up in Wonder Woman #600 as a member of
Wonder Woman's all-female team of heroes.

Many months after her departure from the Outsiders, Grace is shown in a
live-in relationship with Anissa, with both women now in a state of
semi-retirement following Anissa's recovery. When Black Lightning
arrives at Grace and Anissa's apartment with his small band of fugitive
heroes, Grace comes to his aid and helps fight off the attacking members
of the Justice Society of America. In the ensuing battle, Grace renders
Stargirl and Mister America unconscious, telling them not to threaten
her "in-law". After the battle with the JSA, both Grace and Thunder
agree to join up with Black Lightning's small team of Outsiders, who are
tasked by Amanda Waller with travelling to Markovia and capturing
Geo-Force and his rogue faction of the team. Following a massive
battle in Markovia, both teams of Outsiders are disbanded by Batman, and
the individual heroes return home.


Powers and abilities

Grace Choi possesses metahuman levels of strength, heightened durability
and endurance, as well as regeneration and increased healing.


In other media

Television

-   Thunder can be seen texting Grace in the first Thunder and
    Lightning short on  Nation Shorts.

Video games

-   Grace Choi appears in  Universe Online.

