The GREAT TEN, (SHI HAO XIA) or (十豪侠) are a team of fictional Chinese
comic book superheroes in the  Universe, who are sponsored by
the government of the People's Republic of China. Appearing in comics
published by , they were introduced in 52 #6 (June 2006),
and were created by Grant Morrison, J. G. Jones, and Joe Bennett.
Several of the characters have a basis in Chinese mythology. Unlike
conventional superhero monikers, their names are close to literal
translations from the Chinese language.


Publication history

Grant Morrison explained the background to his creation of the team, in
a pitch which also contained the outline for the Super Young Team:

According to ’ Director of Sales Bob Wayne, the Great Ten will
also return in their own title. On August 11, 2009, it was officially
confirmed on the  Universe blog website, "The Source", that the new
title would be a 10-issue monthly mini-series, beginning in early
November 2009 and produced by writer Tony Bedard and artist Scott
McDaniel, with covers by Stanley Lau.


Fictional team biography

First appearing in 52 #6, the Great Ten's actions are hampered by
bureaucracy. Three of the team's members were forced to sit out a battle
with Green Lanterns Hal Jordan and John Stewart because they had not
completed the required paperwork. Following the events in the Infinite
Crisis story arc, as a signatory of the Freedom of Power Treaty China
has entered into a Coalition with Khandaq, Iran, Uzbekistan, and
Pakistan, leading the Great Ten to join forces with Black Adam on the
battlefield. Later, in week #32, the Accomplished Perfect Physician
saves Ralph Dibny from his rampaging teammate Yeti, and gains his help
subduing and restoring him to his human self. The Accomplished Perfect
Physician then shares with Dibny details about his life and powers, his
role as a "super-functionary", and some cryptic advice about a coming
crisis in the Middle East. The Great Ten later battle Black Adam when he
invades China as part of his vendetta after the death of Isis in World
War III. This also involves confrontations with several American based
superheroes, as the Chinese government was willing to go so far as to
launch nuclear missiles if their territory was violated. This portion of
the stand-off was ended when the Great Ten lost contact with Beijing,
leaving August General in Iron with the authority to allow international
help - against his own wishes.

On the final page of Checkmate #3, the Checkmate ground team, on an
infiltration mission in China, is discovered and cornered by The
Immortal Man in Darkness. In Checkmate #4 the August General in Iron,
Celestial Archer and Yao Fei the Accomplished Perfect Physician show up
to support the Immortal Man in Darkness, after a brief skirmish both
sides declare a truce. Later after Yao Fei prevents Count Vertigo
(acting under secret orders from Amanda Waller) from stealing Chinese
state secrets, the August General decides that Checkmate has betrayed
the truce and orders their deaths, only the timely intervention of Green
Lantern Alan Scott and the Chinese Ambassador saves the lives of Sasha's
ground team.

In Checkmate #13-15 and Outsiders #47-49, the Checkmate team and the
Outsiders are on an infiltration mission Oolong Island. In Outsiders
#48, they are attacked by The Immortal Man in Darkness and Chang Tzu has
re-appeared, ready to experiment on the captured Sasha Bordeaux of
Checkmate and Captain Boomerang, in the presence of August General in
Iron.

ISSUE #1 details the Accomplished Perfect Physician's origin, and
introduces eight deities from Chinese mythology led by the Jade Emperor.
The pantheon includes Yu Huang the Jade Emperor and King of the Gods,
Lei Kung the God of Thunder, Feng Po the God of Winds, Kuan Ti the God
of War, Lei Zi the Goddess of Lightning and wife of Lei Kung, Chu Jiang
a minor God of the Dead who rules the second level of Diyu, Gong Gong
the God of Floods, and Chu Jung the God of Fire and father of Gong
Gong.

ISSUE #2 details the Celestial Archer's origin, has the Old Chinese Gods
have returned for vengeance. With the citizens of Lhasa caught in the
middle, the Old Gods battle against the Great Ten, but the super
functionaries are no match for the angry, ancient gods, not when one
member – the Celestial Archer – chooses to turn against his team and
fight alongside the gods.

ISSUE #3 details Thundermind's origin, he appears in times of need to
defend China against evil and injustice. But when Thundermind joins the
Great Ten in their battle against the Old Chinese Gods, he learns the
startling secret that the Old Chinese Gods have been hiding – a secret
so massive it could destroy all of China.

ISSUE #4 details the Immortal Man-in-Darkness' origin, while he battles
Feng Po in Shanghai. Immortal Man-in-Darkness finally defeats Feng Po,
and the Great Ten discover Feng Po is using Durlan technology and that
the Old Chinese Gods are false.

ISSUE #5 details the August General in Iron's origin, explaining the
classified Qinghai incident, fifteen years ago. In the Kunlun Mountains,
the Old Chinese Gods plan to invade Hong Kong. Celestial Archer realizes
that the Old Chinese Gods are not the actual gods and sends a message to
the Great Ten from their headquarters.

ISSUE #6 details the Ghost Fox Killer's origin and early history as a
deadly crime fighter in Hong Kong, introducing an informant she uses to
gather information about the Chinese triads in China. It also introduces
links between the Old Chinese Gods, Taiwanese triads and the Taiwanese
government; resulting in escalation of conflict between the mainland and
Taiwan, and an attack by Chu Jiang on the Hong Kong waterfront.

ISSUE #7 details the Seven Deadly Brothers's origin, as he and
Accomplished Perfect Physician battle the gangster fight in Hong Kong
while trying to apprehend Taiwanese government official, Ma Saihung.
This issue also introduces a fight between the remaining Old Gods and
Great Ten members August General, Ghost Fox Killer, and Shaolin Robot
following the death of Chu Jiang.

ISSUE #8 details the Shaolin Robot's origin, continues the fight that
was introduced at the end of the previous issue, concluding with the
Jade Emperor's beheading by Shaolin Robot, Great Ten Directorate. The
issue concludes with the telepathic interrogation of Taiwanese
government leading to the discovery of the robot factory in the Gobi
desert.

ISSUE #9 details the Mother of Champions' origin, and wraps up the
series from the viewpoint of one of her latest children, sired by
Socialist Red Guardsman. Socialist Red Guardsman's origins are only
hinted at throughout the series, however, it is established he was the
first Super-functionary and that he felt betrayed by his country. The
Great Ten unite at the end, and team with the remaining "false gods" to
destroy the robot army created by a rogue Taiwanese general.


Membership

This team of "super-functionaries" (the communist Chinese ethos rejects
the word 'heroes' for a humbler one) is based in China's Great Wall
complex. This massive complex houses the team's command and support
technicians as well as facilities for the creation of more Chinese
superhumans. The bureaucracy must approve every action the Great Ten
take during combat.

Accomplished Perfect Physician

Accomplished Perfect Physician or 達医者完 (Dá Yī Zhĕ Wán), Yao Fei
was born a peasant in the Anhui Province. Yao had dreams of becoming a
doctor but lacked the money for medical school. He enlisted in the army
instead. When his unit was sent to suppress an uprising in Gyantse,
Tibet, Yao killed a monk named Tenzin Cering. Horrified at what he'd
done, he deserted his unit and was shot by his commanding officer. He
was saved by a local medicine man who told Yao that his son, Tenzin, was
supposed to be the seventeenth man to hold the position of the
"Accomplished Perfect Physician"; since Tenzin was now dead, Yao was
forced to take his place by Tenzin's father. Tenzin tossed Yao through a
magical portal, wherein he was filled with the memories and powers of
the past Physicians. As the new Accomplished Perfect Physician, Yao was
branded an outlaw and an enemy of the state for many years before he
willingly joined the Great Ten.

With simple vocal sounds, the Accomplished Perfect Physician can produce
a variety of magical effects, such as physical or mental paralysis,
force fields, the redirection of energies, healing, destruction of
matter, and earthquakes. The diplomat of the team, the Physician appears
to be a collected individual with well-developed people skills. He does
not get along well with his team leader, August General in Iron, who
sees Yao only as an irreverent deserter.

August General in Iron

The August General in Iron or 钢铁圣将 (Gāng Tiě Shèng Jiāng) is Fang
Zhifu formerly a member of a "Xeno-Team", an elite Chinese spec ops unit
trained for encounters with aliens. 15 years ago, his unit was sent to
investigate a Durlan ship that crashed in Qinghai province. The Durlans
wiped out his unit with a flesh-melting pathogen weapon. Fang barely
survived by injecting himself with a counter-agent that slowed the
degeneration. Chinese scientists subjected him to special treatments
which saved his life, but also endowed him with superhuman strength and
caused his skin to grow iron-like plates. He was then recruited into
China's new metahuman division. He wields a staff that can easily slice
through metal.

August General in Iron is the field leader of the Great Ten and while he
commands the Great Ten, he must still run all command decisions in the
field by the Central Committee. He also serves as the Black King's
Bishop in Checkmate. He met Ghost Fox Killer in Hong Kong. For some
reason, he was immune to her deathly touch, and the two became lovers
instead. As a fanatical soldier, he despises the Accomplished Perfect
Physician for his irreverent attitude and for deserting the army.

Fang Zhifu habitually quotes from Sun Tzu's The Art of War.

Following The New 52, August General in Iron is invited to join the new
Justice League International, with the United Nations council that
assembled the group noting that he was selected because he represents
"The world's most populous nation". His comments about the superiority
of Chinese engineering quickly draw the ire of Rocket Red.

Celestial Archer

The Celestial Archer or 体射手 (Tĭ Shè Shŏu) is a figure with ties to
Chinese mythology. As a teenager, Xu Tao sold souvenirs at the foot of
Mount Tai. After his father's business was shut down by corrupt police,
he joined a gang to support his family. He was not a good thief,
however, and a botched robbery landed his fellow gang members in jail.
When they were released, they sought his death. They chased him to an
old temple below Mount Tai. While hiding behind a tree, Tao was
swallowed up by the earth, and found himself in a cavern where he found
the Celestial Bow of Yi. The magical bow begged Tao to take it as
his own, as it was dying after four thousand years of disuse. When Tao
picked it up, he was transformed into the Celestial Archer and granted
Yi the Archer's godlike archery skills. After chasing away his
former gang, he instinctively fired an arrow at the moon, creating a
magical bridge that took him to the home of the Chinese gods. The gods
tasked him to serve as their agent on Earth, to inspire the Chinese and
remind them of the old gods, whose worship was suppressed by the
Communist government.

The Celestial Archer has unerring aim capable of shooting arrows charged
with a mysterious energy, or that can turn day into night.

Xu is an irreverent character, disrespectful of August General's
authority. He considers his role in the Great Ten as secondary to his
divine mission, something which landed him in trouble when he foolishly
defected to a team of metahumans posing as Chinese deities.

Ghost Fox Killer

The Ghost Fox Killer or 鬼狐杀手 (Guǐ Hú Shā Shǒu) is a female emissary
from the hidden colony of "Ghost Fox Women". She is charged with killing
evil men, and has power over the ghosts of those men. Apparently her
home city is powered by the souls of evil men, and her touch causes
instant death. She is typically accompanied by a rui shi (or
Imperial guardian lion) of living jade. If Ghost Fox Killer does not
kill off evil men for her colony, her society will fall. She
encounters August General in Iron early in her career, and is stunned to
discover that she can touch his body without killing him. She has
demonstrated undefined feelings of loyalty towards him.

Immortal Man-in-Darkness

Fifteen years ago, a Durlan ship crashed in China's Qinghai province.
The Chinese reverse-engineered the craft and used the technology to
build the Dragonwing, the most advanced fighter plane in the world.
The pilot sits in a cockpit filled with a sort of amniotic fluid,
bonding himself to the craft. This type of bond gradually breaks down a
human's molecular structure; each flight takes a year off the
pilot's life. The Dragonwing has been flown by a succession of PLAAF
pilots, all of whom knowingly sacrificed themselves to serve China as
the Immortal Man-In-Darkness or 黑暗中的不朽者 (Hēi Àn Zhōng De Bù
xiǔ Zhě). The current pilot is Chen Nuo. He operates from Anshan Air
Base but makes his home in Shanghai.

The Dragonwing is a powerful shapeshifting aircraft. It can take the
form of diffuse smoke and handle hurricane force winds.

Mother of Champions

Wu Mei-Xing, the Mother of Champions or 冠軍母亲 (Guàn Jūn Mǔ Qīn) was a
theoretical physicist, working on a particle accelerator when she was
briefly exposed to a theoretical "god particle", which mutated her
system by triggering her metagene. At first she was unable to bear
children, but eventually discovered her super-fecundity powers by
accident. She no longer needs to eat, and has to remind herself to
breathe, and she is immune to radiation poisoning from ionizing
radiation. She can now birth a litter of twenty-five genetically
identical supersoldiers about every three days. These children are
short-lived, however, only lasting one week, aging ten years every
twenty four hours. She has at times used a metallic chair with
insect-like legs to remain mobile during her pregnant state. She later
pretended that the alias "Niang Guan Jun" was her real name.

One of her superstrong children named Number Four appeared in The
OMAC Project: Infinite Crisis Special #1. In Nightwing #144, Mother
of Champions is kidnapped from the Great Wall Complex by operatives of
Talia al Ghul; in this same issue it is revealed that she has had
thousands of children, and that each batch of superhuman children are
conceived by suitors whom she hand picks. Her children appear to
demonstrate fairly standard superhuman abilities, save for when she has
the children of fellow Great Ten members. She has had children with
Seven Deadly Brothers, Accomplished Perfect Physician, at least one
Immortal Man-in-Darkness, and most recently with Socialist Red
Guardsman.

Seven Deadly Brothers

Yang Kei-Ying known as the Seven Deadly Brothers or 致命七兄弟 (Zhì Mìng
Qī Xiōng Dì) was born in poverty in Fujian province over 300 years ago.
He was a soldier in service to the Yongzheng Emperor in 1723, and took
part in the destruction of the Shaolin Temple. One of the temple's
kung fu grandmasters, Bak Mei, defected to the Emperor and helped
destroy the second temple. Yang was impressed with Bak Mei's skill and
wanted to learn kung fu himself, but Bak Mei laughed at him and thought
him unpromising. He deserted the army and headed to the school of the
Seven Scribes of the Cloudy Satchel, seven taoist sorcerers in the
mountains near Song Shan. Yang begged to become a pupil and fed the
sorcerers all manner of excuses and lies, but the sorcerers saw through
him and placed a curse on him as punishment for his evil actions. They
placed in his mind complete knowledge of all seven schools of kung-fu
and a lust for violence, and sent him back to slaughter Bak Mei and the
soldiers who had destroyed the Shaolin temples. Centuries later, he was
incorporated into the Great Ten and fabricated his origin, claiming that
he received his powers from an old mystic whom he saved from a
beating.

When entering battle, Yang splits into seven identical clones, each a
grandmaster of one of the seven schools of kung-fu.

Shaolin Robot

When the First Emperor of China commissioned the construction of his
tomb, a brilliant engineer by the name of Lao Yuqi built a hundred
clockwork automatons to serve as tomb guards. The vain and jealous
emperor ordered that Lao be entombed with him upon his death so that his
genius would never serve another patron. Before dying of thirst, Lao
reprogrammed one of the automatons with his own insights, values and
priorities and gave it a semblance of free will. Thousands of years
later, when the tomb was uncovered by archaeologists, the automatons
went on a rampage in an attempt to topple the Communist government and
restore imperial rule. These automatons were defeated by the Super
Functionaries. Only Lao's reprogrammed automaton remained inactive back
at the tomb. The Chinese government reactivated it and upgraded it with
Durlan technology.

Shaolin Robot speaks in simple I Ching hexagrams, but can express more
complex thoughts using written pinyin. It was seen using hexagrams from
I Ching to speak. In 52 #50, Shaolin Robot 'speaks' three times.
Springing forward to attack Black Adam, it speaks [], Hexagram 38, which
is 睽 (kui2), and represents opposition or contradiction. In the next
frame, while actively attacking Black Adam, it speaks [], Hexagram 6, 訟
(song4), which represents contention or arguing. Finally, as Black Adam
destroys Shaolin Robot, it speaks [], Hexagram 23, 剝 (bol), which
represents deterioration or 'splitting apart'. Later while battling the
Shield, it speaks [], Hexagram 18 which is '蠱' (correction), [],
Hexagram 39 which is '蹇' (obstruction), [], Hexagram 25 which is '無妄'
(pestilence), and finally [], Hexagram 1, which is '乾' (force).

Socialist Red Guardsman

Real name Gu Lao, is one of the oldest Chinese heroes. He used his solar
powers to carry out the Cultural Revolution. His body is highly
radioactive, so he is forced to wear special armor reverse engineered
from Durlan technology. He has since become bitter and disillusioned as
China abandons Mao Zedong's vision and embraces market economics. He
lives like a hermit in an isolated stretch of the Gobi Desert due to the
possible threat of a nuclear meltdown. Mother of Champions is immune
to his radiation, and was the first person to touch him in over fifteen
years.

Thundermind

Thundermind or 雷念 (Léi Niàn) is Zou Kang, a history teacher at Beijing
No. 8 Middle School who, on a tour of the Beijing Museum, accidentally
recites aloud a sanskrit "trigger phrase" from an ancient Buddhist
artifact. Afterwards, he transforms into Thundermind whenever he recites
his trigger phrase and unlocks what he calls his full human potential,
becoming a Bodhisattva with the power to access metahuman analogues of
the powers listed in the Buddhist siddhis. He saves a fellow teacher
named Miss Wu, who happens to be in love with his alter ego
Thundermind. He also has super-senses akin to telepathy, and fancies
himself the team's conscience. He is the most loved of the Great Ten,
especially in his hometown of Beijing.


Reserve members

Chang Tzu

As revealed to Alan Scott by Thundermind, Chang Tzu and his Science
Squad are members of the Great Ten that provide, among other things, the
funds to operate the organization and the technology they use.

Number Four

Number Four was one of Mother of Champions' superstrong and tough
children. Number Four was sent into Saudi Arabia to retrieve the fallen
OMAC satellite, he demonstrated superhuman strength, invulnerability and
heightened reflexes, Number Four is a reference to the 14th Century
Chinese myth of the Ten Brothers, the fourth having super strength.

Shen Li Po

Shen Li Po was formerly the Black King’s Bishop in Checkmate. Shen
Li Po later returned to the Great Wall Complex on a leave of absence and
was replaced by the August General In Iron.

The Yeti

Real name Hu Wei. The Yeti is a scientist who unlocked an atavistic
trigger gene that transforms men into monsters. This discovery enabled
him to transform into a powerful white furred yeti-like monster plagued
with an uncontrollable rage. While in his Yeti form, Hu Wei must wear a
special electronic amulet around his neck that keeps him from going
berserk. He was killed in 52 #50 by Black Adam.


Other versions

Anti-Matter Universe

There is an evil counterpart to the Great Ten in the Anti-Matter
Universe, known as "The Most Unworthy Ten".

Flashpoint

In the alternate timeline of the Flashpoint event, August General in
Iron is a member of the H.I.V.E. council. He voted for innocent
civilians to live in Western European between Aquaman and Wonder Woman
before using nuclear weapons to end the war.


In other media

Television

Yao Fei appears in the TV series Arrow portrayed by Byron Mann. In the
show, he's not the Accomplished Perfect Physician, but he's nevertheless
a Chinese Army deserter with unspecified medical training. He is the
father of Shado (and the reason Yao Fei is later allied with Edward
Fyers and Billy Wintergreen), and he acts as Oliver Queen's mentor on
the island he's shipwrecked on. He also resembles the Celestial Archer
as this version of Yao Fei is extremely proficient with a bow and arrow,
but a skilled martial artist as well, proficient enough to combat
Wintergreen. He is killed by Fyers in "Darkness at the Edge of Town".

Miscellaneous

A version of the Great Ten appear in issue 8 of the Batman: The Brave
and the Bold comics. They help Batman fight an army of Yetis.

