CONNOR HAWKE is a fictional  superhero who operated as the
second GREEN ARROW, created by Kelley Puckett and Jim Aparo. Connor is
the son of Oliver Queen, the original Green Arrow, and his former
girlfriend Sandra "Moonday" Hawke. Connor Hawke first appeared in Green
Arrow (volume 2) #0 (1994).

Following the Flashpoint crossovers and New 52 reboot, Connor has yet
to be reintroduced into 's primary storytelling continuity. An
alternative universe version of Connor does however appear in the series
Earth 2, as a World Army member named Red Arrow who assists the
Wonders in the war with Darkseid. Outside of comics, a version of Connor
has appeared in live action in the  television series Legends of
Tomorrow, while a loose adaptation of the story where Oliver discovers
he has an illegitimate son also plays out on the related show Arrow.


Fictional character biography

Meeting Oliver Queen

Connor Hawke met Oliver Queen after Oliver came to stay at the ashram
where Connor had been studying for some years. Oliver who had previously
retreated to the ashram decades before, looking for peace after
accidentally killing a criminal (in The Flash 2nd series #217),
returned to the ashram under similar circumstances, haunted by the
thought that he had killed his former best friend Hal Jordan, who, at
the time, was involuntarily serving as the host of the supervillain
Parallax. Thanks to Connor, who was a big fan of Green Arrow, Oliver was
able to regain a semblance of inner peace and venture out into the world
again, especially after numerous attempts on his life had been made.

Connor decided to journey with Oliver, and created a costume similar to
his. Connor served as Oliver's sidekick, also meeting with Eddie Fyers,
the former federal agent that acted as a form of counsel for Oliver. It
was during this time that Oliver learned about his connection to Connor
(albeit from the ghost of Hal Jordan): Connor was Oliver's son,
conceived during Oliver's college years - a truth that Eddie Fyers had
already deduced. Oliver didn't take it well and stormed off, agreeing to
go undercover in an eco-terrorist group called the Eden Corps for the
government. The mission turned out to be fatal for Oliver, as his arm
was connected to a bomb in a plane that was headed for Metropolis.
Rather than endanger Metropolis, and refusing to allow his arm to be
amputated, he sacrificed himself to let the bomb explode away from the
city. With his father dead, Connor decided to take up the mantle of
Green Arrow and continue his hero's work.

The new Green Arrow

[Connor Hawke's debut as Green Arrow in Green Arrow vol. 2, #0 (1994).
Art by Jim Aparo.] Connor continued to travel with Eddie, accompanied at
times by Connor's martial arts mentor Master Jansen. Connor tried to
find his place not only in the hero world, but also in the legacy of
Green Arrow. Akin to the friendship between his father and Hal Jordan,
Connor became quick friends with the new Green Lantern Kyle Rayner, who
himself was struggling to live up to a legacy. Connor also met Black
Canary (Dinah Laurel Lance), Oliver's former and longtime romantic
interest, who gave him one of Oliver's old bows, which Connor would use
from then on (though the news that Oliver was dead had sent Black
Canary, who was already suffering from a string of misfortunes – loss of
income from the destruction of her florist shop and the loss of her
superhuman ability – into a despair, it was finally ended by her
association with Oracle and she was Oracle's agent by the time she
finally met Connor).

Besides making other friends such as Robin, he also made significant
enemies in the fighting world, including the Silver Monkey, an assassin
and member of the Monkey Fist martial arts cult. Their first encounter
resulted in a decisive loss for Connor, which was also filmed and sold
underground. Connor's close win in a rematch resulted in a loss of face
for the Monkey Fist cult and set Connor on a path that would bring him
face to face with Lady Shiva, said to be the deadliest assassin in the
world. During the Brotherhood of the Fist storyline, the Monkey Fist
schools attacked various world-class martial artists attempting to prove
their worthiness and skill after having been dishonored by the Silver
Monkey's loss. Under the alias "Paper Monkey," Shiva arrived in Gotham
City where Connor had allied with Batman, Nightwing, and Robin. Shiva's
final opponent was Connor, who was the prime target of the Monkey Fist.
Though a close and taxing contest, Shiva was the victor, with Connor
unconscious and defenseless. Thankfully, Shiva's old pupil, Tim Drake
who had saved her life during a previous encounter, asked her not to
kill Connor, trading a life for a life. After warning Robin that using
the favor now meant she would challenge and kill the boy wonder when he
was older, she refrained from killing Connor and departed. Batman warned
Connor that he would be perceived as surviving a battle with Shiva
through his own skill and would therefore be a possible target for any
fighters building their way up to a battle against her.

Connor also applied for membership in the JLA, replacing his father. On
the date of his second interview, he singlehandedly saved the League
from the hands of the Key, defeating the Key's robots by using his
father's old trick arrows after the Key had destroyed his own. In the
end, he knocked out the Key using his father's trademark boxing glove
arrow, and was accepted as a member of the JLA.

He would later be used by Batman as a "traitor" in the League in a ploy
to defeat Lex Luthor's Injustice Gang. Connor left the League afterward,
feeling he was better suited for the street-level work and out of his
element in the epic adventures of the Justice League, although he did
remain on reserve status. During this time, he also developed a
friendship with Kyle Rayner, the latest Green Lantern, occasionally
contacting Kyle for help if he felt that he was dealing with a problem
that went beyond his skillset. One unique mission against the Eden
Corps- the organisation responsible for Oliver Queen's death- saw Connor
team up with a temporally-displaced Hal Jordan, pulled from early in his
career as a hero, with the two musing on how they had each never had a
chance to know Oliver (As Hal was from a point before he had developed
his close ties to the archer). He and Eddie returned for a time to the
ashram where Connor was raised, although they both often returned to the
outside world, aiding Robin at one point when his Brentwood Academy
roommate had been attacked by a demon, and again when Robin, the
Spoiler, and Batgirl were attempting to protect Robin's father from an
ancient cult.

Return to action

When Oliver returned from the dead, Connor left the ashram and tracked
him down. After Connor managed to save his father from warlock Stanley
Dover- a 'blood seal' had been placed around Dover's house that meant
that only someone related to anyone in the house could get in- Connor
and Oliver moved in together in Star City. The two live with Mia
Dearden, a runaway that Oliver has taken in and trained as his new
sidekick Speedy. Since returning to the superhero life, Connor has been
wounded seriously twice, once by the villain called Onomatopoeia and
once by Constantine Drakon, but he continues in his hero role. He is the
voice of reason for Oliver, and the two have since formed a real
father-son relationship. During his recovery from Onomatopoeia's attack,
Oliver Queen and his former sidekick Roy Harper went on a trip across
the country recovering old possessions. One of them was an old
photograph which revealed that Oliver had been present at Connor's
birth, but later ran from the responsibility of being a father. Oliver
kept this fact from his son. However, Connor already learned the truth
years ago from his mother, and has already forgiven him without Oliver's
knowledge.

"One Year Later"

After the events of Infinite Crisis, Connor is revealed, in Teen
Titans vol. 3, #34 (2006), to be on an island with Mia Dearden and
Oliver Queen as Oliver trains for his return to Star City.

In November 2006, Connor starred in his own six issue miniseries,
entitled Connor Hawke: Dragon's Blood._ It was written by Chuck Dixon
with art by Derec Donovan. Dixon stated, "A big surprise leads to major
changes in Connor's life, particularly as it relates to his father.".

At the end of Tony Bedard's Black Canary miniseries, Connor takes
Dinah's adoptive daughter Sin to a safe location at Oliver's request.
After the wedding of Oliver and Black Canary, Connor resumes the mantle
of Green Arrow after it is believed that his father has once more been
killed. Along with Dinah and Batman, Connor is one of the few people who
believes that Oliver is still alive. His suspicions are confirmed when
it is revealed that Oliver is being held captive by the Amazons, and
Connor and Dinah decide to stage a rescue attempt. Following the
rescue of Oliver, as the family is reunited, Connor is shot through the
chest by League of Assassins members manipulated by Shado. After
taking Connor to the hospital, Oliver learns from Mia that Connor
already knew of his father's abandonment. The doctors and Hal Jordan are
able to save his life, but the bullet was coated with a devastating
toxin, leaving Connor in a persistent vegetative state from which he may
never emerge. Oliver is devastated by the knowledge that his son may
never wake up and that Connor had forgiven him years ago. He vows never
to leave his son again.

However, after Oliver and Dinah return home from getting married (the
first marriage being void, with an imposter posing as Oliver), the
nurses tending to Connor are found dead, with Connor himself missing.
Oliver begins a quest to find his missing son. This quest leads him
to Dr. Sivana, who has utilized a neural patch to turn Connor into a
mindless drone. Connor is rescued by Oliver and returned to his hospital
bed, where he finally awakens from his comatose state.

After his coma, however, Connor starts exhibiting several unusual
traits. Physically healthy, he's now amnesiac and oblivious to
everything happened to him before waking up (even his life as a
superhero) and he feels no pain at all and exhibits a strong healing
factor, forcing Dinah to ask for outside help.

A brief examination of his physical make-up, made by Batman and Doctor
Mid-Nite, reveals how his DNA is now spliced with Plastic Man's, along
with several other alterations fully accounting for his new healing
factor and his currently very high pain threshold. His memories however
come back only in a fragmentary, confused way, with none of the
emotional attachments previously experienced, and his archery prowess
was absent. To make up for his inability to use ranged weaponry Connor
retains his mastery of the martial arts, enhanced by his advanced
healing factor, able to close up bullet wounds in mere seconds.

Blackest Night and Return

During the events of Blackest Night, Connor travels to Coast City and
faces Oliver after he has been transformed into a Black Lantern by
Nekron. Connor once again takes the mantle of Green Arrow. During their
battle, Oliver mocks Connor by telling him that he always hated him
because he reminded him of how old he was getting. Connor is hesitant to
fight his father, but eventually stops him by spraying him with liquid
nitrogen, freezing him solid. After Oliver's defeat, Connor, Mia, and
Dinah join in the fight against the other Black Lanterns.

After this, Connor returns to the ruins of Star City (which had been
destroyed just prior to Blackest Night) and tries to help maintain
order. Connor is approached by Oliver, now a fugitive after having
murdered Prometheus, the villain that destroyed the city in the first
place. Oliver tries to talk to his son, but Connor angrily states that
his battle with his Black Lantern father somehow jogged his memory, and
that he now remembers all the terrible things Oliver had done to him.
When Oliver tells Connor that he had thought he had forgiven him, Connor
states that he no longer has the strength to forgive him for his
transgressions. Though he refuses to turn Oliver over to the Justice
League, he also refuses to help him, instead telling him to do the right
thing for once in his life.

New 52

 rebooted its continuity as part of its "The New 52" publishing
event in 2011; Green Arrow stories reverted to depicting a young Oliver
Queen, with no known son. However, a revised interpretation of Connor
Hawke appears in the series Earth 2, which is set in an alternative
universe within the  Multiverse. In Earth 2 Annual #1, an
archer named Red Arrow debuts and is recruited to join the World Army;
he is believed to be identified by the name Roy McQueen. In Earth 2
#20, it is revealed that his name is Connor Hawke. This version of
Connor is seemingly killed by monsters unleashed by the invading forces
of the planet Apokolips. The series The New 52: Futures End shows a
successor Earth 2 Red Arrow to be Oliver Queen.


Ethnicity

Connor is of mixed Asian, African, and European heritage (his mother was
half black and half Korean, and his father Oliver is white), and was
originally depicted with Asiatic features, dark skin, and fair hair and
eyes. However, this has not been consistently maintained across
different artists and colorists, and when the Green Arrow series was
rebooted the character was depicted with European features and light
skin (even though a childhood picture in the later Archer's Quest
storyline depicted him with dark skin). Connor's original features were
later restored with Dixon's Dragon Blood miniseries. He now appears to
have a mix of Asian and African facial features.

The Earth 2 version of Connor Hawke in the New 52 resembles Roy Harper
more than his pre-Flashpoint counterpart, with light skin and red hair.


Parentage confusion

There was some confusion in recent years about the identity of Connor's
mother. Throughout the later issues of the first Green Arrow series
written by Chuck Dixon, Connor's mother was identified as Sandra
"Moonday" Hawke; a flighty ex-hippie, who had reportedly been one of
many conquests for a young Oliver Queen. Moonday played a frequent
supporting role in the series, often requiring rescue due to the
machinations of her husband - an arms dealer named Milo Armitage, who
would be a frequent foe of the new Green Arrow.

Shado, a murderer who also mothered a child with Oliver Queen, is often
incorrectly identified as Connor Hawke's mother. One reason for this is
because of a Wizard Magazine issue, which incorrectly identified
Connor's first appearance in comics being in Green Arrow vol. 2 #24.
While this was the first appearance of Shado's infant son (who was later
revealed to be named Robert), Connor appeared as a man in his
early-twenties in Green Arrow vol. 2 #0. Both Robert and Connor were
seen together, many years apart in age, in Chuck Dixon's 2007 Dragon's
Blood miniseries.

The issue has been further confused by Birds of Prey #109, in which
Barbara Gordon incorrectly identifies Shado as Connor Hawke's mother
when running down a list of women with whom Oliver Queen cheated on
long-time girlfriend Dinah Lance. Writer Tony Bedard has acknowledged
this as "just a good old fashioned f*ck-up on my part."


Powers and abilities

Connor possesses no powers, he is merely an expert archer (although not
the natural his father is). Due to his influence most of the "arrow
team" has begun to use regular pointed arrows consistently. However,
they will still engage in use of trick arrows when needed.

Due to Connor's training in the ashram, he can mimic fighting styles
that he witnesses, though this is a learned skill and not a metahuman
power. Writer Chuck Dixon used the Brotherhood of the Fist storyline to
establish Connor as being among the best hand to hand combatants in the
world, even going so far as to win the title of the World's Deadliest
Martial Artist after beating Lady Shiva. One Year After Infinite
Crisis,_ Connor furthered his training, and like his father and Mia, is
able to wield a sword proficiently.

According to the 2007 miniseries, Connor Hawke: Dragon's Blood, Connor
has possibly received some measure of immortality, enhanced strength,
and speed by bathing in the blood of a dragon. However, no mention of
this has been made since the miniseries.

After the events told in the Green Arrow and Black Canary 2008 series,
Connor is infected with a brain-damaging neurotoxin and spliced with DNA
coming from Plastic Man and other still unnamed sources; as a result,
he's left largely amnesiac and unable to wield a bow with the necessary
ability and coordination, but he's granted a highly effective healing
factor and an even higher pain threshold. His martial arts mastery
however is not influenced by his brain damage: in fact, coupled with his
newly discovered metahuman powers, this makes him a feared warrior,
almost unable to be deterred by pain and wounds. During the battle with
Oliver during the Blackest Night, Connor is shown to be very
proficient in the use of Japanese shuriken. After the Blackest Night,_
Connor regained his memories.


In other media

[Joseph David-Jones as Green Arrow / John Diggle Jr. / Connor Hawke in
Legends of Tomorrow.] The Connor Hawke storyline and character have
been adapted for television in the related series Arrow and Legends
of Tomorrow. In Arrow, a season two episode flashback shows Oliver
fathered an unknown son as a teenager, which he learns about in season
four; the son is named William, not Connor. William also appears in
spin-off series The Flash. In Legends of Tomorrow episode
"Fail-Safe" and "Star City 2046", Connor Hawke (Joseph David-Jones)
appears as Green Arrow in Star City 30 years in the future. He is the
son of Oliver's partner John Diggle, born John Diggle Jr. He becomes the
new Green Arrow after he believes Oliver has died and tries to defend
the city from the new Deathstroke. After defeating Deathstroke together,
he and Oliver partner to rebuild Star City.

In the tie-in comic for Injustice: Gods Among Us, Black Canary names
her and Oliver's son Connor.

