GUARDIAN (JAMES JACOB "JIM" HARPER) is a  superhero, created by
Jack Kirby and Joe Simon. He first appeared in Star-Spangled Comics #7
(April 1942). Guardian resembles an earlier Kirby and Simon
character Captain America (first published in March 1941 by 
Comics) in that he had no super powers and carried an indestructible
shield.


Fictional character biography

Jim Harper

[Guardian (Jim Harper) and the Newsboy Legion's debut. ] Jim Harper is a
police officer in Metropolis' Suicide Slum who became a vigilante to
catch crooks that the law could not prosecute, describing himself as
guarding society from criminals. He was trained to fighting condition by
ex-boxer Joe Morgan (the same man who trained two other mystery men,
Wilat and the first Atom). He was aided by a group of boys known as
the Newsboy Legion, to whom he was, literally, a guardian, having
volunteered to take them in rather than allowing them to be sent to
prison; he did so on the grounds that they were basically good kids who
just needed a chance. The Legion grew up to become the heads of the
Cadmus Project, subsequently saving Harper's life by transferring his
mind from his old, dying body into a younger clone of himself.

It was later revealed that Jim Harper was the great-uncle of Roy Harper,
who became Green Arrow's sidekick under the name of "Speedy".

Other relatives include his niece Roberta "Famous Bobby" Harper, who was
briefly a member of the second Newsboy Legion  and Jamie Harper, an
African American grandniece working for the Gotham City Police
Department. She worked as Robin's personal contact in the GCPD, similar
to the role Commissioner James Gordon plays for Batman. After helping
Robin and Jason Bard expose two dirty cops in the GCPD, Jamie Harper was
promoted to Detective Specialist and has since transferred to the
Metropolis Science Police.

Golden Guardian

In Superman's Pal Jimmy Olsen #135 (January 1971), Jack Kirby
reintroduced the boys of the now grown-up Newsboy Legion as supporting
characters connected with the DNA Project (later Project Cadmus), a
genetics research laboratory. One of the Project's experiments was a
clone of the late Jim Harper, who took up his predecessor's role, and
became the Project's Head of Security as the GOLDEN GUARDIAN.
Post-Crisis this character was simply known as the Guardian.

Harper remained Cadmus' Head of Security even after the former Newsboys
had left. Eventually, he too was killed, although another clone was
created and rapidly aged to adulthood, retaining all his predecessor's
memories. This Guardian disappeared along with the rest of Cadmus
following an altercation with Amanda Waller and President Luthor, and
his whereabouts are unknown.

Post-Infinite Crisis

Following Infinite Crisis, the Guardian clone's backstory was
retconned. As Dubbilex explained to Jimmy Olsen, Jim Harper was not
killed in the line of duty, but shot by Cadmus' first head of security,
Jonathan Drew, upon discovering the clone was already being created.

It was also revealed that the original Guardian clone had left Cadmus
early on, and was now living in the town of Warpath on the Mexican
border, where he assisted Sheriff Greg Saunders. Subsequent appearances
of the Guardian had been new clones, each of which died within a
year.

The original Guardian clone has decided to move to Metropolis with Gwen,
his adopted daughter (in fact, an adolescent female clone of himself
that he rescued), during the New Krypton storyline.

Science Police team leaders DuBarry and Daniels, along with several
prison guards, were killed during the events of New Krypton when a team
of Kandorians led by Commander Gor assaulted Stryker's Island and
demanded custody of Parasite. The Science Police Control 'Rachel'
tasked Guardian to act as a liaison between the Metropolis Police
Department and a coalition of superheroes in bringing justice for the
fallen science police officers and prison guards. After the
Kandorians left Earth, Guardian was appointed Field Commander of the
Science Police, as replacement for DuBarry and Daniels, due in part to
his cloned memories of Jim Harper as a police officer and Guardian as a
superhero. He was asked by Superman to help Mon-El, offering him a
job with the Science Police and mentoring him on how to be a hero.

The issues of Detective Comics published during the One Year Later
event, reveals that Harper has a grandniece, Jamie, formerly a
detective of Gotham City Police Department and a former associate of
Robin III.

The Guardian later travels to the JLA Watchtower to warn the Justice
League after finding a teleportation device in Metropolis. While on the
Watchtower, the heroes are attacked by Prometheus, who blinds the
Guardian. In the aftermath of the attack, Guardian and Mon-El are
recruited by Kimiyo Hoshi to join the Justice League. On his first
and only mission with the team, the Guardian helps battle Doctor
Impossible's gang of villains. After a mere three issues, the Guardian
was written out of the book due to writer James Robinson's desire to
work with a smaller cast.

Following the events of War of the Supermen, Harper abandons his role
as the Guardian and takes Jamie (now pregnant with Mon-El's child) off
to an unknown destination.

Mal Duncan

In Teen Titans #44 (November 1976), the previously uncostumed Titan
Mal Duncan took the name of the Guardian, wearing the original's outfit
and an exoskeleton with strength augmenting abilities. The two Guardians
finally met in Superman Family #s 191-193 (Sept 78-Feb 79), when Mal
helped rescue the Harper clone from Adam, an evil clone created using
genetic material from both Harper and Dubbilex who had taken control of
the DNA Project.

The Crisis on Infinite Earths removed Duncan's career as the Guardian,
although he did appear briefly in his Guardian costume during the Crisis
itself.

Mal made appearances in the two season show Young Justice. Mal was
shown to be the Boyfriend and later fiancé of Bumblebee. He took the
identity of Guardian (after Jim Harper) in order to protect The Hall Of
Justice from an attack.

Jake Jordan

In 2005, Grant Morrison's Seven Soldiers megaseries introduced a new
character based on the original Guardian, Jake Jordan the Manhattan
Guardian.


Powers and abilities

The Guardian possesses exceptional combat and tactical skills. He was
trained in many forms of fighting, and excelled at gymnastics, thinking
quickly on his feet, and deduction. His only weapons are his golden
helmet and shield. Guardian often used a customized motorcycle equipped
with autopilot and a set of video cameras filming from various angles
and recorded on videodisc.

The Harper clone possesses enhanced strength and reflexes, and an
accelerated healing factor. The Harper clone's exact strength level is
unknown but has demonstrated the ability to hurt Superboy (who he
trained in hand-to-hand combat) and Kryptonians from Kandor. As an agent
of Cadmus, Jim Harper also has access to the wondrous Whiz Wagon. The
Hairies (a super-advanced tribe of techno-wizards, originally genetic
creations of Donovan, who left Cadmus) built the Whiz Wagon to handle
every situation. It can adapt to every terrain, fly, and even go
underwater. The Wagon can be remote controlled or pre-programmed and is
equipped with a set of powerful weapons and various gadgets.


Other versions

In the Frank Miller graphic novel Batman: The Dark Knight Strikes
Again, the Guardian is one of the superheroes killed by Dick Grayson.
It is implied that he had a daughter with Lois Lane named Lana
Harper-Lane, a television reporter.

The Guardian's golden shield survives to the alternative future of the
853rd century; it is kept by that timeline's Batman.

A bearded version of Guardian exists on the post-Flashpoint Earth-23 as
a member of a predominantly African American Justice League.


In other media

Television

-   A teenaged version of Guardian appears as a supervillain under the
    name of PRIVATE H.I.V.E. in the Teen Titans animated series voiced
    by Greg Cipes. As his name implies, he is a student of the H.I.V.E.
    Academy (as opposed to Cadmus) and is a member of the show's version
    of the Fearsome Five. Private H.I.V.E. possesses an identical
    costume and shield to Guardian's albeit with a H.I.V.E. crest
    located on his chest, belt and the center of the shield. Like
    Guardian, Private H.I.V.E is extremely disciplined and militaristic,
    often ending sentences with the word "Sir".

[Guardian in Young Justice.]

-   Guardian appears in Young Justice voiced by Crispin Freeman.
    In the two-part episode "Independence Day", he is shown as a member
    of Project Cadmus but Aqualad mentions that he is a known superhero
    as well. Guardian ends up fighting Robin, Aqualad, and Kid Flash in
    the sub-levels of the Cadmus Building and appears to be controlled
    by Dubbilex' Gene-gnomes on Mark Desmond's orders. He was with
    Desmond and Dubbilex when they corner Robin, Aqualad, and Kid Flash
    in the room where Superboy was being held. When Robin, Aqualad, Kid
    Flash and Superboy end up near the main floor of the Cadmus
    building, Dubbilex has the Gene-gnome remove its control
    on Guardian. To help with Dubbilex' freedom, Guardian vows to deal
    with Desmond only for Mark to arrive and drink a formula that turns
    him into Blockbuster. Guardian is knocked down by Blockbuster. After
    Blockbuster is defeated by Robin, Aqualad, Kid Flash and Superboy
    and then taken away by some of the Justice League members, Guardian
    takes over the Cadmus Building to make it a gentler version of
    Cadmus along with Dubbilex and Doctor Amanda Spence. In the episode
    "Agendas", he is questioned as to his resemblance to Red Arrow
    (Roy Harper) to which Guardian states that he was Red Arrow's uncle.
    After it is revealed that Red Arrow is a clone and the real Roy
    Harper was captured years ago as seen in "Auld Acquaintances",
    Guardian is mentioned by Batman to be tracking down the original.
    Between seasons one and two, Guardian learns that he is a clone of
    Jim Harper. Jim (clone) tells Roy (clone) that Cadmus policy was to
    destroy source material and that he has to honor the original Roy.
    Roy's clone refuses and continues to look for speedy (original
    Roy Harper). Unfortunately for the Justice League, the Light
    compromised Guardian and the other Project Cadmus members to steal
    their store of clones, including the original Roy
    Harper—cryogenically frozen and minus one arm. In the episode
    "Salvage", Guardian accompanies Green Arrow, Black Canary,
    Nightwing, and Kid Flash into holding an intervention for Red Arrow
    (who is still looking for the true Speedy). Guardian even admits
    that he is not sure who his identity of Jim Harper was. In the
    episode "Cornered", Mal Duncan officially takes over as the new
    Guardian after finding Jim Harper's costume and shield in the Hall
    of Justice during an attack.

-   James Harper appears in the Supergirl episode "Manhunter",
    portrayed by Eddie McClintock. In this episode, Harper is a colonel
    in the United States Marine Corps, and arrives with Lucy Lane to
    investigate the disappearence of Hank Henshaw and his subsequent
    replacement by the Martian Manhunter. At the end of the episode,
    Harper tries to take both the Martian Manhunter and Alex Danvers
    (DEO agent and foster sister of Supergirl) to be experimented on at
    Project Cadmus only to be thwarted by Supergirl and Lucy Lane. At
    the end of the episode, Martian Manhunter erases Harper's memories
    of the event and learns that Alex Danvers' father is also at Project
    Cadmus.

