GUNFIRE is a fictional  superhero and freelance anti-terrorist
operative. He first appeared in Deathstroke Annual #2 October 1993, he
was created by Len Wein and Steve Erwin and was one of the "New
Bloods," several superpowered individuals introduced during the 1993 
Comics Bloodlines crossover event.


Fictional character biography

During the Bloodlines crossover, Venev, one of the alien parasites,
emerges in Paris and senses power nearby in the form of Deathstroke the
Terminator. She follows him to the Van Horn company building, and on the
way attacks and slays the owner of the company. Andrew Van Horn, the
man's son, is also attacked and seemingly killed. Venev notes how he has
a "familiar taste."

Andrew soon awakens and, realizing that a creature is inside the
building slaughtering his employees, creates a suit of technological
armor and follows the trail of bodies. He encounters Deathstroke whom he
attacks, thinking him responsible for the carnage, although both men
fail to hurt each other due to their body armor. In the course of the
battle, Andrew discovers his blasting powers and attempts to use them on
Deathstroke. Both men soon come to an understanding and head off to
battle Venev.

New Bloods

Soon after this incident, Andrew's connection with the aliens draws him
to Metropolis, where veteran superheroes are battling the creature that
the parasites have brought forth. Andrew works with dozens of other 'New
Bloods', people who have acquired powers when attacked. Eventually, the
superheroes are freed and the aliens destroyed.

As Andrew Van Horn takes over his family company, he quickly learns his
father had profited from weapons sales to terrorists, whom he starts
working to neutralize, which leads him into conflict with 'Dominion', a
former employee of his father's business. Dominion runs a group
called the 'Oblivion Front' but Gunfire soon ends its operation.

Gunfire was seen as one of the many prisoners in stasis tubes after the
Ultra-Humanite, using the magic of Johnny Thunder's Thunderbolt,
conquers the world.

Infinite Crisis

During the Infinite Crisis, the Secret Society of Supervillains gathers
an army to march on Metropolis. Gunfire is amongst the army of heroes
gathered by the information broker Oracle. A massive battle ensues, with
fatalities on both sides.

Some time later, while fighting alongside fellow Blood Pack colleagues
Hook, Anima and Argus, his hands are cut off by the supervillain
Prometheus. Anima and Hook do not survive the battle.

Final Crisis

Gunfire is seen with dozens of other forgotten heroes, such as Ace the
Bat-Hound and fellow Bloodlines Geist. They are all stuck in a
self-described 'Limbo', where no stories happen. They are rescued by
Superman and a dimension crossing ship. Later, all of them assist
against the cosmic threat of Mandrakk.


Other versions

 One Million

Gunfire's eyepiece survived into the far, far future, appearing in
Hitman One Million. This grants a citizen of the future Gunfire's
exact powers simply because it is so old and was used by a super-powered
hero. Unfortunately the man utilizing the eyepiece was not very
competent. He turns his medical pack into a gun, injuring himself, then
accidentally turns his own buttocks into a grenade. He perishes moments
later.

John McCrea, who illustrated that issue, describes Gunfire as "one of
the shite-er characters to come out of Bloodlines", stating that he
"told Garth [Ennis] many, many times that [McCrea] hated Gunfire,
because it's a terrible, terrible concept."


Powers and abilities

-   Gunfire is able to agitate the atoms present in matter and either
    cause said objects to explode or convert a portion of their mass to
    directed blasts of concussive energy. Originally the objects needed
    to have a topological focal point for the blasts (such as the tip of
    a crowbar or a metal pipe). Eventually, due to much of their mass
    being converted to energy, the objects tend to disintegrate. Metal
    objects lasted longer than wooden ones.
-   If Gunfire attempts to use an object without a defined topological
    focal point (i.e. perfect sphere like a snowglobe), it would become
    a timed explosive, like a hand grenade.
-   On at least one occasion Gunfire was able to release a concussive
    force blast without using an object. He was able to agitate atoms in
    the air in front of his hands and released enough energy to send
    himself flying backwards through a wall. This would seem to indicate
    that his abilities also function on non-solid materials, since air
    itself has no defined focal point.
-   Gunfire's ability to convert matter to energy is similar to an
    ability possessed by Russian superhero Pozhar.

