GYPSY (CYNTHIA "CINDY" REYNOLDS) is a fictional comic book superheroine
who appears in books published by , in particular those
featuring the Justice League. She first appeared in Justice League
Annual #2 (November 1984) and was created by Gerry Conway and Chuck
Patton. She is a member of the Birds of Prey and has been a member of
the Justice League.


Fictional character biography

Cindy Reynolds is born to suburban couple Edward and June Reynolds. When
her powers of illusion begin to manifest at age fourteen, Cindy runs
away from home, buying a one-way bus ticket to Detroit.

JLA Detroit

Once in Detroit, Cindy uses her chameleon and illusion-casting powers to
protect herself. As she grows to adulthood, she adopts the identity of
GYPSY, patterning her dress after the popular image of the gypsy. The
Justice League would soon take up residence in a neighborhood near
Gypsy's stomping grounds after Aquaman disbands the original League.

Shortly after the League moves into their new headquarters Gypsy begins
to test and penetrate the League's security measures. Eventually, she
becomes brave enough to follow along with them and to aid in the battle
against the Overmaster and his Cadre. After this, Gypsy receives an
offer to become a full-time member of the Justice League. Gypsy goes
on to participate in the League's struggles against the power-mad Anton
Allegro  and a reactivated Amazo.

Gypsy finds cause to test her powers to their limits when the new JLA is
unexpectedly ambushed by the Royal Flush Gang during a wilderness
retreat. While her teammates are incapacitated, Gypsy ventures outside
her own body, in astral form. In this form, she can spy on the Gang's
activities. Also during this mission, she receives a dire premonition
about the fates of her teammates Steel and Vibe.

This League is doomed, though. In his bid to wipe out the new JLA,
Professor Ivo sends an android to destroy Gypsy, but she manages to find
its conscience and convinces it not to kill her. Though Ivo succeeds in
killing Vibe (as she'd foreseen), the android sees Cindy safely returned
to her parents' keeping.

Gypsy's domestic happiness is short-lived, as some time after she has
left the JLA, a vengeful Despero arrives at her home and murders her
parents. Gypsy would have been Despero's next victim, if not for the
intervention of the Martian Manhunter and the rest of the Justice
League. Devastated by the loss of her family, Gypsy is immediately
recruited by Booster Gold to become a member of the corporate-sponsored
team of heroes known as the Conglomerate.

Justice League Task Force

[Gypsy in battle armor, during her time serving in the Justice League
Task Force.] Over time, she grows very close to the Martian Manhunter,
developing a sort of father/daughter relationship. The two of them are
the mainstays of the short-lived Justice League Task Force. During
her time in the JLTF, she is nearly forced to battle Lady Shiva in one
early adventure, and is left for dead on another mission. She
later joins the revamped Task Force along with L-Ron (in the body of
Despero), The Ray, and Triumph.

Gypsy and Ray are both later mind-controlled and used by Triumph as "his
League" during his strike against the reformed JLA; he expressed
disgruntlement that their team had been ignored and forgotten when "the
headliners" reformed. During the battle, she would see Aquaman, her
old team-mate in Detroit, and say in confusion "you went away". 

There have also been hints of a romantic relationship between Gypsy and
the Bronze Tiger.

After the Justice League Task Force title was canceled, Gypsy and
J'onn keep in touch. At one point, after she had been killed, Gypsy is
resurrected by the Manhunter, who pleads with his Martian god, Hronmeer,
to restore her life. She also aids Wonder Woman during a massive
battle against Circe.

Recent history

Gypsy joined the cast of Oracle's Birds of Prey. She has
demonstrated greater flexibility with her powers as well, now able to
extend her powers of invisibility to others and things around her.
Gypsy also teams up with her JLA and BoP teammate Vixen to clean up the
remnants of an old case. The two heroines rescue Stargirl when after
discovering that Amos Fortune was kidnapping members of the JSA.

Gypsy is one of the imprisoned heroes forced to fight on the behest of
the Apokoliptan gods on Earth in the Dark Side Club. In Final
Crisis: Requiem, Gypsy is part of Martian Manhunter's funeral. She,
along with several other heroes are telepathically compelled by the
Martian Manhunter to recall Martian history. Later still, she is again
accosted by Despero (off-panel). The villain then brings her unconscious
body to Happy Harbor and fights Vixen's ragtag Justice League.

Gypsy's final appearance was in the two-part Blackest Night tie-in arc
along with her former JLA Detroit teammates. She, Vixen and Doctor Light
battled Black Lantern versions of several deceased Justice Leaguers that
were attacking the Hall of Justice.

The New 52

Gyspy appears in The New 52 continuity, though no longer as a member
of the League. She can be seen as one of the captive metahumans
imprisoned by Amanda Waller in a government holding facility. She is
a refugee from an alternate dimension, fleeing from Vibe's brother
Rupture, a supervillain enslaved to Mordeth. Rupture reveals that
Gypsy's full name in the new continuity is Cynthia Mordeth, as she is
Mordeth's daughter.


Powers and abilities

Gypsy's primary power is that of illusion casting, which allows her to
blend into her background, effectively becoming invisible. Her
abilities are telepathic in nature, and hence are only effective on
living beings (the only known exception to this rule being her
appearance in the JLA: Blackest Night Tie-in where she was able to
affect Steel's reanimated corpse by trying to repel him with an
illusion. This might be because the Black Lanterns take over the body
and mind of their hosts, making it possible for Gypsy to use her
illusion casting even though he was technically dead). It also allows
her to adapt to rapidly changing backgrounds without betraying the
illusion. She can camouflage both herself and someone in close proximity
to her. In Gypsy's first appearance, only her shadow is shown from the
Bunker's monitor, and she appears to teleport at the end of the issue.

Gypsy's illusion-casting can also be used to project frightening
illusions into the minds of other people. These illusions usually show
what the affected person fears most. This ability can affect other
living things besides people, and Gypsy can use this ability in combat
situations. In one issue of Martian Manhunter, Gypsy has the ability
to project an illusion to appear as another person, but that person
needs to be her approximate height and weight for it to appear
authentic.

In recent issues of Birds of Prey, it has been stated that Gypsy's
powers have "hit puberty", and she can now use her chameleon powers to
cloak not only herself, but a moving vehicle and its passengers. In JLA
Classified #25, it is revealed that Gypsy also has limited precognitive
abilities. She also appears to be able to project her spirit from her
body.

Aside from her powers, Gypsy is an expert in hand-to-hand combat. She's
also an accomplished acrobat, able to leap high, run fast, swim, and
execute unexpectedly quick martial arts tactics with relative ease.
Gypsy also has a strong aptitude in electronics and computers, and has
become skilled in the use of firearms. She has been trained by Bronze
Tiger, and in issues of Birds of Prey, Lady Shiva has offered to train
her as well.


In other media

Television

[Gypsy on Justice League Unlimited.]

-   Gypsy made many background appearances in Justice League
    Unlimited, alongside her Detroit League teammates Vibe and Steel.
    She dresses in her original outfit. This version of Gypsy has
    different powers from her comic book counterpart: in her limited
    appearances, she displays the ability to phase through walls.
    Captain Atom speaks with her in the first episode, "Initiation",
    when he is called up for service on the active roster (concurrently,
    Supergirl [Kara Zor-El] is in conversation with Nemesis). Gypsy's
    first use of powers in a superhero situation is in "Flashpoint".
    Gypsy is also featured in Issue 22 of the Justice League Unlimited
    comic series based on the show.

Film

-   An evil Parallel Earth version of Gypsy, named Gypsy Woman, appears
    in Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths. This version is a member
    of the Crime Syndicate of America, and can become intangible.

