HADES (also sometimes referred to as PLUTO or HELL) is a fictional
character appearing in  publications and related media,
commonly as an adversary and sometimes-ally of the super hero Wonder
Woman. Based upon the Greek mythological figure of the same name, he is
the Greek god of the dead and ruler of the underworld. He first appeared
under his Roman name Pluto in Wonder Woman #16, volume 1, published in
the summer of 1946, written by Wonder Woman creator William Moulton
Marston. Later appearances named him as Hades, such as in Wonder Woman's
final Bronze Age adventure in Wonder Woman #329 (vol. 1), 1986, as
well as in writer/artist George Pérez's Post-Crisis reboot of the Wonder
Woman mythos in 1987. The current New 52 version of the character,
referred to primarily as Hell and sometimes as Hades, was introduced in
2011. In a departure from previous incarnations who were presented as
adult men, the current Hades/Hell, designed by artist Cliff Chiang, is a
young boy in black and red armor, his head crowned with a mass of
melting candles, his face partially obscured by dripping wax.


Fictional character biography

As in classical mythology, Hades is a member of the Olympian gods, the
immortal children of the Titans Cronus and Rhea. Along with his brothers
Zeus and Poseidon, he ruled a significant portion of the ancient world.
As god of the Underworld, Hades had dominion over the spirits of the
dead. His realm was divided into four sub-sections: Tartarus (abode of
the damned), the Asphodel Fields (a misty after-world), the Elysian
Fields (where the righteous dwell) and the Isle of the Blessed (the
paradisal resting place of those deemed great heroes). Hades ruled these
realms beside his niece and queen Persephone.

Pre-Crisis

Hades did not figure frequently in the adventures of Wonder Woman until
the end of the first volume, when Hades was tricked by the Anti-Monitor
into making a pact with Ares to conquer Olympus. The plot was thwarted
when Persephone (referred to in-story as Kore), inspired by the love
between Wonder Woman and Steve Trevor, went to her husband to profess
openly her love for him. Hades pulled out of the scheme, and Steve
Trevor freed the gods while Wonder Woman engaged Ares in final
combat.

Post-Crisis

As a result of the machinations of the alien god Darkseid, the Olympian
gods were each split into separate entities for many years, existing as
both their Greek and Roman variations. Hades' Roman counterpart, Pluto,
ruled his own dimensional variant of the Underworld, occasionally coming
into conflict with his "brother". The pantheons were eventually merged
once more centuries later.

Hades shared a sometimes tense relationship with Wonder Woman's people,
the Amazons of Themyscira. The Amazons had been appointed to guard an
entryway to his realm, Doom's Doorway, behind which were trapped many
monsters and undead abominations. Over the centuries, many Amazons lost
their lives when the Doorway was occasionally breached. Despite their
loss, the Amazons always attempted to show proper respect to the lord of
the underworld, as one of the honored gods of their faith. They even
built a large tabernacle to the god of the Dead which carried its own
priestess who served a 1,000 years before being replaced by another. In
time, most of the gods' followers died off or ceased to believe, leaving
the Amazons an important part of Hades and the Olympians' continued
existence.

Like her Amazon sisters, Wonder Woman has often had an uneasy
relationship with Hades. Early in her career, she descended through
Doom's Doorway, slaying most of the monsters and freeing her people from
their terrible burden. On other occasions, she has journeyed to the
Underworld to request a boon from its ruler or to free the soul of a
slain comrade, such as the Amazon Artemis and the murdered messenger god
Hermes, which she succeeded in.

For most of his life, Hades clothed himself in a classical Greek toga
and wore his black hair in ringlets. In recent years however, many of
the gods adopted modern clothing in an attempt to evolve with the times.
Hades took to dressing in a dark black suit with top hat and cane,
similar to that of a Victorian era Undertaker.

Recently, a shift in power occurred in the Olympian pantheon. While
Athena assumed the throne of Mount Olympus from her deposed father Zeus,
Hades was stabbed in the back by his nephew Ares. As a result, the
former War God soon became the new ruler of the Underworld. As it was
revealed that Olympian gods do not truly die, only become citizens of
the underworld, Hades presence may still be evoked.

The new Olympian order of rule was again changed when the New Gods of
Apokolips captured the Olympian pantheon and tampered with their
memories. Hence, the current ruler of the Olympian underworld is still
in question. This is further compounded by Ares' recent demise at the
hands of Wonder Woman, putting the question of Olympian Underworld
rulership in a greater state of confusion.

The New 52

In The New 52, Hades appears to be but a child with pasty white skin, a
dark suit of armor and most unusually a number of candles where the
melted wax obscures most of his face above the nose. As a more modern
name for himself he tells Lennox to call him "HELL". He is still the
ruler of the underworld and the dead, but his realm and everything in
it is now an extension of his will and essence.

Hades suffers a degree of self-hatred, as his realm (and by extension,
himself) is filled with suffering. Hades has difficulty appreciating and
expressing his own values, even if he tries to flatter occasionally,
even going so far as refusing to believe it was possible for a
Lasso-ensnared Diana to be capable of loving everyone, including him.

Though Diana wishes to aid him otherwise, Hades refuses to be aided,
leaving Diana to shoot him with one of the Pistols of Eros while he is
looking at his own reflection, as the bullet should make him fall in
love with the first person he sees.


In other media

Television

-   Hades appeared on the Justice League episodes Paradise Lost Pt.
    I & II voiced by John Rhys-Davies. His appearance on the show is
    significantly different from the comics version, with long black
    hair, a dark goatee, and black and silver armor. He is a former
    lover of Wonder Woman's mother Amazon Queen Hippolyta and (it
    is implied) possibly the real father of Wonder Woman. His
    personality is also significantly altered, as he is used as a stand
    in for the Devil. According to the episode Paradise Lost, (based
    on John Milton's book by the same name) after a failed attempt to
    overthrow Zeus during the Titanomachy, Hades was sentenced to
    eternal torment and imprisonment in the pits of Tartarus, the fiery
    abode of demons and the evil dead. Thus, Hades made a pact with
    Felix Faust (a clear nod to the true Faust was said to have made a
    Deal with the Devil). Through the first episode, Hades is shown as a
    fiery being with—it seems—horns on his head. Hades here was
    portrayed as deceitful and treacherous and, though seemingly
    handsome, revealed his true face as that of a monster.
-   Hades returned in Justice League Unlimited episode "The Balance",
    this time voiced by Bob Joles. Wonder Woman and Hawkgirl were
    summoned to the Underworld by Hermes, and found that the soul of
    Faust was out to usurp Hades' rule. It was shown that the demons of
    Tartarus were taught to fear the angels when they mistook Hawkgirl
    for one. She encouraged them in that thought and, pointing upwards,
    said that if they touched her "The Boss" would be angry. Hades also
    implies to Diana that he is in fact her "father", saying that he and
    Hippolyta created her together. Hawkgirl then urged the Amazon
    Princess to use the Lasso of Truth on the god of the Underworld to
    verify this information. However Diana chose not to, possibly
    because she knew it could be the truth. Despite this, Hades assisted
    in fighting Faust and decided to torment Faust's soul for eternity.
-   On Smallville, Hades was one of the aliases used by Darkseid.

Film

-   Hades appeared in the Wonder Woman animated movie voiced by Oliver
    Platt. This Hades was again different from his comics counterpart,
    resembling a corpulent, overweight man in a toga and using the
    spirits of the dead as personal servants. Ares seeks him out in
    order to have Hades remove his bands to restore his god powers
    (previously bound to him by Zeus and Hera) and Hades does so
    knowing, but not telling that it will ultimately result in
    Ares' death. Ares is eventually killed by Wonder Woman and he is
    shown becoming a slave for Hades, a shadow of his former self.

Video games

-   In Scribblenauts Unmasked: A  Adventure, the New 52
    version of Hades is one of the thousands of characters that can be
    summoned by the player.

