THE HANGMAN is the name of several fictional superheroes that appear in
periodicals published by MLJ Comics and later Dark Circle Comics.


Publication history

The first Hangman (Robert Dickering) debuted in MLJ Comic's Pep Comics
#17 (1941). He appeared in that title up until the 47th issue as well as
in Special Comics #1.

In Spring 1942, Special Comics was renamed Hangman Comics starting
with issue #2. It ran for seven issues ending in Fall 1943 where it was
renamed Black Hood Comics.

The Hangman appeared in Fly Man #33 (September 1965) after a
twenty-one year absence. However, this time The Hangman was a villain
who fought against the Mighty Crusaders.

A new Hangman (Steve Dickering) appeared in The Comet #1 (1983),
however he eventually faded into obscurity.

After  continuity altering "Final Crisis" company-wide
crossover had ended, they licensed the rights to the Red Circle and
Milestone Media heroes, bringing them into  Universe continuity. The
Hangman appeared as a second feature in The Web written by Angela
Robinson with art by Roger Robinson. His first appearance was in The
Web #1 (November 2009).

In March 2015, a new series featuring The Hangman was announced under
the Dark Circle Comics imprint. The Hangman debuted in November 2015,
written by Frank Tieri with art provided by Felix Ruiz. Dark Circle
Comics Editor Alex Segura has described the new series as "Quentin
Tarantino adapting a Stephen King novel.".


Robert "Bob" Dickering

MLJ Comics

Fictional character biography

The Hangman is secretly ROBERT "BOB" DICKERING, whose brother John
Dickering was the hero The Comet. Bob Dickering became the Hangman after
watching his brother die by the men he was trying to put behind bars.
Afterwards, he promised to get revenge against all criminals and took up
the identity of the Hangman.

Whenever the Hangman was needed, Dickering would change into his
costume, which consisted of a green, skin-tight body suit, along with a
black cowl and cape, blue gloves, and black underwear and boots.

Dickering fought alongside such heroes as The Shield while doing battle
against villains, most notably Madam Satan.

However, after disappearing from sometime he returned as a criminal
himself fighting against the Mighty Crusaders. He eventually returned to
the side of the good.



Robert Dickering is a Lieutenant and doctor in the United States Army
during the Civil War against the Confederate States of America. During
this time he was ambushed by a group of thieves and left for dead. After
awakening he realizes that the thieves left him behind enemy lines. When
he returns he is sentenced with the death penalty for spying behind
enemy lines.

With minutes left to live he is approached by a mysterious figure
cloaked in the shadows offering him a way out of death. He told
Dickering that he could survive the hanging in return for hunting down
all those who don't repent for the evil deeds they have committed. He
must do this forever until he is destroyed by something equal to the
mysterious shadow's powers, or until the end of the world.

Dickering accepts the offer and survives the hanging. He decides to take
up a secret identity creating the Hangman. For over a hundred years
since his execution, he has continued to punish those guilty while
helping the innocent.

Dark Circle Comics

Robert Dickering appears as the Hangman in the first issue of The
Hangman (vol. 2) in November 2015. He comes for hitman Michael Minetta
and proceeds to hang him. After hanging Minetta, Dickering is deemed
worth of ascension.


Steve Dickering

Archie Comics

Fictional character biography

The second Hangman is STEVE DICKERING, the son of the original Hangman
who first appeared in The Comet #1 (1983). He took up the mantle of
the Hangman to prove to his father that he could honor the title.

The second Hangman wore a costume similar to the original Hangman
complete with carrying around a hangman's noose.


Eric Adams

' Impact imprint

The third Hangman debuted under ' Impact Comics imprint. He is
secretly ERIC ADAMS, a lawyer working for Native American rights. He is
attacked because of his work leaving him blind and left for dead. A
local tribal shaman found him and healed him as well as giving him a bag
of magical charms and a raven whose eyes Eric could see through. With
these gifts, Adams fights corruption both in the courtroom and on the
streets as the Hangman.

Powers and abilities

The Hangman has no superpowers, however he uses a bag of magical charms
to fight crime as well as using the eyes of a Raven to see through.


Michael Minetta

Dark Circle Comics

The fourth Hangman first appeared in The Hangman (vol. 2) #1 as a
loyal hitman-for-hire named Michael "Mikey Ice" Minetta. He lives in
Dyker Heights, Brooklyn with his wife and daughter, Gabby. He is hired
to "take care" of a man named Petey after he slept with another man's
wife. On his way back for the hit he is attacked by the Hangman (Robert
Dickering) who proceeds to beat up Minetta and hang him from a street
lamp. Minetta awakens in hell and is met by Satan. Satan tells
Minetta the story of the Hangmen and how they have been around for
centuries collecting the souls of those who are deemed unworthy to
remain existing. Satan offers the now open position of the Hangman after
Dickering was deemed worthy of ascension. Minetta initially refuses the
offer until he realizes that his wife and daughter could still be put in
danger. He accepts Satan's offer and is brought back to walk the Earth
as the Hangman.


Notes

