HARRY STEIN is a fictional police officer and secret agent featured in
. Stein first appeared in Vigilante series 1 #23, (November
1985), and was created by Paul Kupperberg and Tod Smith.


Fictional character biography

Vigilante

Lieutenant Harry Stein is an eighteen-year veteran of the NYPD. His
first U appearance was in Vigilante #23 where he is introduced as the
head of a police task force operating out of Midtown South. This task
force's sole job is the apprehension of Vigilante (Adrian Chase) whom
they believed was a cop killer. Gary Washington the very first
Checkmate Knight was also introduced during Harry Stein's run, in
Vigilante issue #24 as Stein's partner. In Vigilante Annual #2, Harry
Stein uses illegally obtained evidence to prove Adrian Chase is the
Vigilante. Stein admitted to illegal search and seizure and all
charges against Chase were thrown out. In Vigilante #37 Stein is forced
to resign by his supervisor Chief Rogers and hands over his badge,
Rogers informs him that there are criminal charges pending against
him.

In Vigilante #37, Harry is recruited into the Agency by Valentina
Vostok, his first mission is to help a mentally unbalanced Vigilante
(Adrian Chase) take down a ship full of middle eastern terrorists.
During the mission, Vostok, Stein and Chase come into conflict with an
equally deranged Peacemaker (Christopher Smith), a man that Adrian Chase
had sworn to kill.

Ironically, Adrian Chase would become a cop killer, but he commits
suicide out of regret.

Doom Patrol

Harry Stein shows up next in Doom Patrol series 2 #2, heading for a
meeting with his boss, Valentina Vostok. Harry later makes it inside
Kalki's complex (father of Celsius), and shuts down the electrical plant
long enough for the Doom Patrol to free themselves from Kalki's
traps. Harry promises to leave any mention of Joshua Clay's double
identity as doctor Johnathan Carmichael out of his reports. Harry
later informs the Doom Patrol that the Agency needed them to rescue an
American superhero who had been taken hostage in San Salvador.

Checkmate

Harry Stein is appointed Valentina Vostok's replacement in the Agency's
command position by Amanda Waller. Stein later sought out the most
stable personnel available from the American and international
intelligence and law enforcement communities to form Checkmate. His
agency would field only the best-trained and well-equipped of agents,
working under the strictest rules of secrecy. For the organizational
structure of the re-organized Agency, Stein chose the game of chess as
his working model.

Stein brought in Gary Washington (Knight One) and Black Thorn as
operatives, both of whom were his friends, and both of whom were
introduced during his run on Vigilante. Harry Stein's sons Barry and
Matthew are introduced in Checkmate series 1 issue #2.

On a rare vacation with his sons, Harry confronts a murderous gang of
thieves robbing the payroll of a popular and extensive amusement park.
Harry deals with the gang, mostly on his own. Months later, he almost
loses one of his sons to a killer's bullet. Harry Stein's last recorded
appearance was in Checkmate #33 (January 1991), the final issue of the
original series.


Notes

-   When first introduced in Vigilante #23 and throughout his run in
    that series, Harry was drawn as slovenly and unshaven, in the mould
    of Harvey Bullock.
-   In Action Comics #598 and Checkmate #2. Harry is shown as a clean
    cut level headed father.

