The HAUNTED TANK is a comic book feature that appeared in the 
anthology war title G.I. Combat from 1961 through 1987. It was created
by writer and editor Robert Kanigher and artist Russ Heath in G.I.
Combat #87 (May 1961).

The feature centers on the ghost of 19th-century Confederate general
J.E.B. Stuart, who is sent by the spirit of Alexander the Great to act
as a guardian over his two namesakes, Lieutenant Jeb Stuart (named in
the early stories as Jeb Stuart Smith, but eventually just shortened to
Jeb Stuart) and the M3 Stuart that Jeb commands.

"The Haunted Tank" was often the cover feature of G.I. Combat and was
second only to Sgt. Rock as ' longest-running war series.


Fictional character biography

An origin story in G.I. Combat #114 reveals that, at the time of the
ghost's arrival, Jeb is a sergeant in the United States Army who
commands a Stuart tank fighting with the Allies in the North African
Campaign. Jeb and his men are childhood friends who had volunteered for
the cavalry when World War II began. The original crew consists of Jeb
as tank commander; Arch Asher, loader; Rick Rawlins, gunner; and Slim
Stryker, driver.

The ghost of General Stuart does not initially care for his assignment,
but is impressed with the fighting spirit of Jeb and his crew. Jeb
further honors the ghost by flying a Confederate rather than a Union
flag on his "haunted" tank. Jeb, however, is the only one who can see or
hear the General. His crew thinks he is crazy, but continue to follow
his leadership as he has solid tactical expertise (brought about through
his consultations with the General, who usually gives him cryptic hints
of future events) and rarely fails in his missions.

As the Haunted Tank fights from Africa to the European Theater of
Operations, the crew goes through several M3 tanks. When their latest M3
is destroyed, the crew scavenge spare parts and wreckage from a "tank
graveyard" to build themselves a new tank, known as the "Jigsaw
Tank", which serves them from that point. This tank has a modified
Russian T-34 Hull, a Christie Suspension System and a Russian Y2
12-Cylinder diesel engine of 500 H.P. the nearly 15 foot track gives
this rolling jigsaw puzzle excellent traction and it is capable of
speeds up to 21 m.p.h.

Following a disastrous mission engineered to rescue the son of their
commanding officer General Norton from a German P.O.W. camp (based on
the Task Force Baum incident), the crew of the Haunted Tank find
themselves stranded behind enemy lines and spend several issues fighting
their way back to the front. During this, they pick up Gus Gray, an
African American soldier who had escaped from the same P.O.W. camp 
Days later, Arch dies saving them from an exploding suicidal German tank
 and Gus takes his place in the crew.

Later in the war, Slim is also killed in action and older veteran Bill
Craig replaces him. Craig's son Eddie also joins the crew a few
issues later, taking over the loader's position and allowing Gus to
act as a second gunner.

The Jigsaw Tank is eventually replaced by an M4 Sherman tank that sees
them through to the end of the war. Despite a story that involves the
ghost of General William T. Sherman being assigned to the tank once the
crew switches to the Sherman, General Stuart's ghost continues to watch
over the crew until war's end.

The feature ended when G.I. Combat was cancelled with #288.


Post G.I. Combat appearances

Secret Origins #14 (1986), featuring the Suicide Squad, reveals that
Jeb Stuart is promoted to General after the war, but no mention is made
of what happened to the others. The story also revealed that Stuart
becomes the godfather of Richard Rodgers Flag, whose father led the
World War II version of the Squad. Rick Flag subsequently leads the
second and third incarnations of the Squad, and Stuart is instrumental
in helping Amanda Waller in the formation of the Squad's third
incarnation in the 1980s. The now-elderly General Stuart next appears in
Suicide Squad #49-#50, seeking the Squad's help to rescue Flag's
only son, who has been kidnapped. Since Flag has recently been revealed
to have been a false identity implanted in a soldier named Anthony
Miller, Stuart's true role in Flag's background has become unclear.

In Hawk and Dove Annual #1 (1990), the General's ghost helps out the
heroes Hawk and Dove and their team Titans West to escape Hell and a
team of deceased supervillains.

The tank and its original crew briefly appear in #46-#47 of The Demon,
although Stuart's crew members are inexplicably given the names of Arch
Stanton, Rick Parsons and Slim Kilkenny. The crew and the Demon retrieve
the tank from a military warehouse and it is restored via magic. They
work together to stop demonic Nazis that are rampaging through Texas.
All the enemy forces are destroyed and the tank is left covered in the
desert sands. The Haunted Tank and its original crew also appear in
the 1999 supernatural "Day of Judgment" crossover in Anarky. In this
issue, they fight demonic forces in the form of historical entities who
wish to overthrow the President. The story ends before the battle
does.

Jeb Stuart

Jeb Stuart lies between life and death, becoming a spirit guide to his
granddaughter, Lieutenant Jennifer Stuart. Jen Stuart operates an
advanced tank, the Cyber-Command Assault Vehicle, which becomes the new
Haunted Tank. Jeb reflects on how his situation compares to the ghost of
the General. The two assist the superhero group 'The Power Company' in
defeating an inter-dimensional menace that had been planning to conquer
earth with murder, mayhem and coportate mergers. During the mission Jen
is overcome by severe doubts as she is unsure if her grandfather's
tactical advice is real or some sort of hallucination. However, the
advice, like General Sherman's before him, proves sound and the menace
is defeated. Jeb is able to talk to General Stuart, ghost to ghost, then
recovers, meeting his granddaughter in the hospital room. He plans to
ressure her all she experienced was really his advice.

The Haunted Tank appears in the most recent incarnation of the Tales of
the Unexpected comic. They assist Doctor Thirteen and other heroic
characters in rescuing Traci Thirteen from Nazi guerrillas. The
General's ghost is mainly featured, becoming involved in a sword fight
with the pirate ghost Captain Fear. Since both entities are deceased,
the damage they deal to each other is ineffectual.

The original Haunted Tank makes a guest appearance in the 2008 Vertigo
mini-series Sgt. Rock: The Lost Battalion, set in October 1944, with
Rick, Slim and Jeb (named as Jeb Stuart Smith once more). Arch is still
alive at this point, but is said to be wounded and does not appear. The
Haunted Tank was called "This here genuine piece of modern American
Firepower" to the Narrator,William J. Kilroy who draws some 'Kilroy was
Here' graffitis.

A " Showcase" black and white trade paperback collection Haunted Tank
Volume One, reprinting stories between 1961 and 1965, was published in
2006. Haunted Tank Volume Two, reprinting stories from 1966 to 1972,
was published in May 2008.

In the backup story "Snapshot: Remembrance" in the retrospective
mini-series  Universe: Legacies #4, set during a reunion on July 4,
1976, Jeb Stuart is teaching American History at Calvin College (where
the Golden Age Atom studied) and says he has not spoken to the General
in years.

A G.I. Combat one-shot was published in 2010, featuring the Haunted
Tank. In this story, set in 1944 during the liberation of France, Jeb
Stuart and his team have a friendly rivalry with Lieutenant Billy
Sherman, who commands an M4 Sherman. Sherman is killed by German snipers
and Jeb, with the general's advice, uses the Sherman's gun to take them
down. At the end of the story it is revealed that Lt Sherman was himself
being guided by William T. Sherman and the two ghost generals discuss
the situation.


Other versions

The Haunted Tank returned in 2008 as a five-issue mini-series from
Vertigo, written by Frank Marraffino, with art by Henry Flint.
The new series is set during Operation Iraqi Freedom, and features the
General becoming the guardian of an M1 Abrams, commanded by an
African-American Sergeant Stuart, who (at least initially) does not take
kindly to the ghost's outmoded attitudes and language concerning his
race. The mini-series serves as an acerbic, no-holds barred satire about
an entire gamut of racism both casual and institutionalized.


In other media

Television

-   The Haunted Tank appears in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold
    episode "Menace of the Madniks!" voiced by Dee Bradley Baker.
    However, only the ghost of General Jeb Stuart is starring as the
    driver and gunner of the M3 Tank. He helps Batman fight Ma Murder
    and her gang. The sequence is also a parody of the Dukes of
    Hazzard, with the tank leaping over a bridge while playing Dixie
    on a horn.
-   The Haunted Tank is one of the superheroes who sign the Teen Titans'
    yearbook in the Teen Titans Go!_ episode "Yearbook Madness".

Film

-   J Michael Straczynski told Film Buff Online that he would like to
    see Haunted Tank get made into a film.

Miscellaneous

-   The Haunted Tank appeared in issue 5 of the Batman: The Brave and
    the Bold comics. It helps Batman fight Key.

