THE HECKLER is a fictional character, a superhero parody published by 
Comics'. He first appeared in The Heckler #1 (cover-dated September
1992), an ongoing series that lasted six issues, ending with The
Heckler #6 (cover-dated February 1993).


Fictional character biography

STUART "STU" MOSELEY, co-owner of "Eats", a skid row diner in the ghetto
section of Delta City, fights the injustices and slightly goofy criminal
element as The Heckler, armed only with his sarcastic wit and a brightly
colored costume. Stu's motivations and origins are unknown. Possibly
he's just a glutton for punishment, for it seems that he receives no
respect from his contemporaries in either his civilian OR costumed alter
ego's existence. It is notable that while walking around as Stu, he ends
up coming across as slightly anal, frustrated and awkward; when wearing
his costume, he seems to become a completely different person.


Powers and abilities

A costumed fighter with only average strength and agility, Stu relies
heavily on his razor-sharp wit to enrage and baffle his adversaries to
the point of blinding frustration, opening a window of opportunity that
he will exploit to his benefit. The Heckler also possesses an
immeasurable level of durability that frequently allows him to quickly
recover from extreme amounts of physical damage. Being swallowed whole
by a monstrous beast or falling to the earth from staggering heights
only to bounce back minutes later speak mildly of The Heckler's ability
to absorb and recover from damage. His access to this ability sometimes
teeters on the edge of invulnerability.


Supporting cast

LEDGE- Stu's buddy and the only person that's in on his Heckler
alter-ego, notable for being incapable of spelling correctly. Ledge
provides most of Stu's information regarding his opponents, keeping
extensive dossiers on all major crime figures in Delta City.

FRANÇOIS- Stu's slightly anal-retentive and obsessive head cook at
"Eats."

MR. DUDE- One of the patrons of "Eats". Sometimes provides Stu with
information on underworld activities. Regularly speaks to the denizens
of Delta about various subjects.

GUS MCDOUGAL- Officer of the Delta City Police Department and ex-husband
of the Minx. McDougal bemoans the changing face of Delta City's downtown
core, and when we first see him he is weeping for the loss of "42
Varieties," a donut shop which has been bulldozed to make room for a
McDonalds.

MAYOR CLUMP - Delta City's mayor has a grey, undefined face. He wears
either a "liberal" or "conservative" human face mask, depending on his
audience.

THE MINX- A gun-toting loner with a teenaged daughter named Axi. She
tends to hunt down criminals in Delta City, but they all appear to be
people she's gone on awkward dates with. Much like Ledge, keeps copious
files on the subject. Very much a parody of characters like The
Punisher, Minx guns down criminals without consideration for due process
and typically leaves no survivors.

X-MS.- One of the Heckler's superheroic peers in Delta City. She defends
the Christmas-themed section of Delta City called "Tinseltown."

RABBI ZONE and DREIDEL- The Rabbi is part of the Brotherhood of the Zone
Magi, an ancient order that "in eons past...enforced order in the
cosmos." His undefined powers come from the Zone Patch, a purple circle
in the palm of his right hand. Dreidel is Zone's adolescent sidekick,
with the power to spin and travel at top speeds. Though they are meant
to parody Batman and Robin, they are uncostumed.

LEX CONCORD- The Heckler never meets Concord, who was apparently the
sole superhero for Colonial Delta City during the 1800s. Concord was
lost, along with the entire settlement, during a previous invasion by
the demonic entity called FLYING BUTTRESS, who simply ate them. By the
time the Heckler comes across Colonial Delta's remains, Lex Concord has
disappeared via time travel into a Jack Kirby-esque future.


Enemies

BOSS GLITTER- Incredibly dainty and theatrical mob boss of Delta City.
Has a penchant for elaborate masks and frilly clothes.

P.C. RABID- Ultra-conservative media celebrity. Constantly instigating
plans that present imagery used as an attempt to demonize the Heckler.
Wears a human face mask; his real face is never revealed.

BUSHWACK'R- Bounty hunter who attempts to collect a price placed on the
Heckler's head. A victim of his own constant bad luck, as his weapons
and actions keep misfiring and injuring only himself. The character is
clearly a parody of Wile E. Coyote, forming elaborate traps that
backfire. In one panel of the issue, the biography of Chuck Jones is
prominent.

EL GUSANO- Assassin hired by Boss Glitter that resembles a large
earthworm dressed in a snappy dress suit. Seems to be Latin in origin.

JOHN DOE, THE GENERIC MAN- A complete blank slate. Attempted to take
over Delta City by using his ability to rob his environment (including
all inanimate objects and persons in the surrounding vicinity) of any of
its individual characteristics. Often accompanied by his girlfriend or
sidekick (depending), a young woman named BUCKSHOT with exploding
freckles.

RACHET JAW and KRIEGLER- Trigger men for Boss Glitter. Rachet Jaw is a
common-looking mobster with a mechanical lower jaw that unhinges to
reveal a gun barrel. The gun can be fed through an ammo belt attached to
his chin. Kriegler is Rachet Jaw's verbose, diminutive sidekick.

THE COSMIC CLOWN- An android assassin from the stars. Humanoid, dresses
like a clown. Is apparently one of a whole host of clown-shaped killer
robots, who is at odds with his own clan and assumes that circuses and
clowns on Earth are bent on murder.

C'EST HAY- Psychopathic killer composed completely of hay and/or straw.
Resembles a scarecrow. Has delusions of being an actor, speaks in
stilted tongue, as if emoting dialogue…that is when he's not singing and
dancing.

THE FOUR MOPEDS OF THE APOCALYPSE- The erstwhile sidekicks of the Four
Horsemen of the Apocalpyse, the Mopeds are hanging out in various
sections of Delta City, watching for signs of the end times. They
include Skippy, Famine Lass, Plague Boy and Kid Pestilence, and are
charged with summoning the dread FLYING BUTTRESS, a giant demon who is
all digestive system.

CUTTIN' EDGE- Not much is known about this character because he never
actually appeared in a Heckler issue. According to Mary Bierbaum on her
Facebook page, he was supposed to be the villain of the intended seventh
issue that was never published. He was going to be an elitist British
man who more or less had the personality of Simon Cowell and an
appearance more or less of Howard Stern. His name was probably going to
be Malcolm and he was out to rid the world of pop and mass appeal
entertainment that he hated.


Comic connections

The Keith Giffen-created  character VEXT (who starred in the
short-lived series of the name in 1998) was also a resident of the
fictional Delta City. Delta City more recently appeared in an issue of
Giffen's Doom Patrol series, undergoing considerable damage because of
alternate reality versions of the team appearing and causing melee.

The Heckler appears on two panels on page 31 of JLA: Welcome to the
Working Week alongside Plastic Man and Ambush Bug. They seem to be
leaving to get ready for a keg party.

In issue 12 of Book of Fate, Heckler makes a cameo in a bar called The
Warriors where he and some other lesser known heroes are talking about
their crime fighting memories. The Heckler also is singing Memories are
Made of These by Dean Martin.


In other media

The Heckler is in the video game Scribblenauts Unmasked: A 
Adventure.

