HECTOR HALL was a superhero who appeared in 's Infinity,
Inc._, Sandman and JSA. He has gone by the names Silver Scarab,
Sandman and, before his death, Dr. Fate.


Fictional character biography

Childhood

Hector Hall is the son of Carter and Shiera Hall, the Golden Age heroes
known as Hawkman and Hawkgirl. Carter and Shiera were reincarnations
of an ancient Egyptian pharaoh and his wife, both of whom had been
killed and cursed by their rival Hath-Set. Unbeknownst to either of
them, however, Hath-Set's curse also concerned any children that might
be conceived by the pair. The curse of Seketh, the Ancient Egyptian God
of Death, prophesied the combination of the Silver Scarab and the Eye of
Ra, which would practically mean the end of the world. As such, when
Hector was born during an archaeological dig near Cairo, he was born
without a soul, destined to be a vessel for the Silver Scarab, an agent
of vengeance called forth by Hath-Set.

To further anger Hector, his parents would frequently visit the city of
Feithera and spend time with their godson Norda Cantrell (who would
become Northwind). Although the two children would be playmates as well,
Hector carried a grudge against Norda for his wings and the attention he
got from Hector's parents. It turned out later that, as Hector had been
prophesied to become an agent of Hath-Set, Norda's destiny would be to
stop him.

Young Hector Hall would sometimes also play with the other children of
the Justice Society, such as Al Rothstein (gohild of the first Atom),
Lyta Trevor (child of the first Fury, who would grow up to marry Hector)
and Rick Tyler (the son of the first Hourman). During one of these
meetings, the kids ended up flying a jet, and almost crashed into the
White House, where they were of course stopped and reprimanded by their
parents.

The Silver Scarab

[Hector Hall, the Silver Scarab] Feeling neglected by his crime-fighting
parents, in college Hector constructed a suit out of the Nth Metal that
granted his parents the power of flight, while also adding some solar
improvements. Hector had enrolled at UCLA and met his childhood friend,
Lyta Trevor. The two quickly fell in love and began to date. Lyta wished
to follow in her mother's footsteps and become the next Fury, and Hector
shared the secret of his Silver Scarab suit with her. As such, the two
decided to apply for membership in the Justice Society of America, the
group their parents had helped form. Inviting Al Rothstein to apply with
them as well as Norda Cantrell, who would codename himself Northwind,
all four would be turned down due to their age and inexperience. Not
willing to give up, the four applied again with Jenny Hayden and Todd
Rice, both Alan Scott's children. Feeling pity on the youngsters,
Star-Spangled Kid decided to leave the JSA in order to create a new
group, in which they were also joined by Power Girl and Brainwave Jr.,
calling themselves Infinity, Inc.

The team would publicly divulge their secret identities (revealing those
of their parents in the process), where Hector also announced his
engagement to Lyta. They would have little time to enjoy their happiness
as the entity that had been within him since his birth came forth,
thanks to the manipulation of Hath-Set. The reincarnated Silver Scarab
fought Infinity, Inc. alongside Hath-Set and summoned the Eye of Ra. The
heroes managed (largely thanks to the help of the returned Northwind) to
win, but at the cost of Hector's life. As he died, he learned that Lyta
was carrying his child, the one thing that was his undoing, for the
child carried with him the purity and goodness of Hector Hall, resulting
in the Silver Scarab being unable to fully control the Eye.

The Sandman

[Cover to Infinity, Inc._ #49 with Hector Hall as the new Sandman. Art
by Vince Argondezzi.] Hector Hall would cheat death like his parents
before. His consciousness had been cast into the Dreaming, where it was
discovered by Brute and Glob, former servants of Morpheus, Dream of the
Endless. Left at a loose end following the imprisonment of Morpheus in
the early 20th century, Brute and Glob had taken to recruiting mortals
as surrogate "dream kings," which they hoped to use as a means to seize
control of the entire Dreaming. Hector was one such pawn, and he adopted
the costumed identity of the Sandman. In his new persona, Hector could
only leave his "dream dimension" for one hour a day.

He increasingly made use of this time to visit Lyta in her dreams, where
he discovered that she had become pregnant with his child. This pattern
continued for a long time before Hector was finally "caught" by his
friend Al Rothstein, who had come to visit Lyta and propose to her. He
told Lyta of his new role and asked her to marry him. She agreed, and
the two of them departed for the dream dimension.

The "Dream Dimension" was nothing more than a part of the Dreaming
inside the mind of a young boy named Jed Walker which Brute and Glob had
severed. Inside, Lyta slowly started to drift off, becoming less and
less in touch with reality, and her pregnancy had completely halted for
nearly two years. Hector became more and more obsessed with his role as
the Sandman, and devolved from a serious superhero to one who fought
nonsensical battles against weak villains.

It was only a short time later that Morpheus escaped his captivity and
set about putting the Dreaming back into order. Eventually, his
attention fell on Brute and Glob. Ending their schemes, Morpheus
returned Hector to the realm of the dead, and laid claim to his
yet-to-be-born son, Daniel, who was destined to become the next Lord of
Dreams.

Doctor Fate

Like his parents, however, Hector was in a reincarnation cycle. When he
returned again several years later, he was chosen to adopt the vestments
of Doctor Fate, a powerful sorcerer who had previously been a member of
the Justice Society of America. As soon as he had adopted the
vestments of Fate, he was forced to fight Mordru and was able to best
him, capturing him inside the Amulet, thanks to the advice of Kent
Nelson, who resided in the Amulet with his wife Inza.

The parents of Hector's current body are Hank Hall (no relation) and
Dawn Granger, better known as the super-heroes Hawk and Dove. Since they
were empowered by the Lords of Chaos and Order respectively, the new
Doctor Fate was, like Jared Stevens before him, an agent of balance.

While acting as Dr. Fate with the Justice Society, there was still a
piece missing in Hector Hall's life, his wife. Searching for her
valiantly, he and the team had travelled inside the Amulet of Anubis,
where Mordru revealed she was alive, and he returned to the place where
he was reborn. There he found his second mother to be comatose, but
concluded that Mordru had put up a spell of deception and that this
woman was in fact Lyta.

Hector sought his aid in reviving his wife from her coma with the JSA,
and while he left her with them, he traveled to Thanagar. He came to
rescue Hawkgirl and also witnessed the resurrection of his father. The
two were now reunited, and although they were happy to see one another,
their emotional connection had worsened.

Hector tried all of his magic to wake Lyta, but he was unsuccessful and
thus returned to his Tower. He learned from what he believed to be Nabu,
to travel to Gemworld, where he would uncover the secret behind Mordru's
spell. It turned out that the Amulet had been created on Gemworld, and
that Nabu had come from a world known as Cilia, with the Amulet being
all that is left of the planet. Similarly, he learned that Mordru was in
fact not a corporeal being, but a form of body-hopping energy. Hector
left Gemworld with this new knowledge, and took with him the skull of
Lord Wrynn, a man who had been consumed by Mordru. Hector started to
prepare for the ritual involving the skull, although Nabu disapproved,
wanting Hector to study more.

At one point, the JSA confronted the Injustice Society, and after the
elder heroes had been teleported away, the Spectre revealed himself, who
told them that they would have to fight a demon called Legacy, after
healing old emotional wounds. When Hector met with Nabu, he was
confronted with his 'destiny'. Apparently, he was fated to kill
Hawkgirl, after which he would be killed by his own father. Hector did
not accept this destiny and instead swore that he would form his own
path and fate. Hector and the rest of the JSA confronted Legacy who was
actually revealed to be an old villain called Wizard, and they proceeded
to beat him.

Afterwards, Hector returned to his goal of freeing Lyta. When he had
undone Mordru's spell, he found that Mordru had placed another spell,
and that the woman was in fact Dawn Granger. Hector was both sad and
disappointed that he had still not found Lyta and became unhinged.

Rejoining the JSA, he became aggressive to both protestors and his own
teammates. Hawkman ordered him to remove his helmet and to their shock,
Mordru had managed to replace Hector under the helm of Fate. Hector was
now prisoned in the cell he had created for Mordru in the Amulet.
Fortunately, the Agents of Order that had come before helped him and it
was revealed that Mordru had been disguised as Nabu the entire time and
that he had taken over the body of Arion, a Lord of Order. He was
brought to the house of the Nelsons, where he was told his wife was
dead, which he still refused to accept.

Hector gathered his strength and managed to return to reality to
confront Mordru. In the ensuing battle, Hector called forth every ounce
of magic he possessed, tapping into every magical realm at his disposal.
After showing Mordru his future, a future of humiliation and failure,
Hector imprisoned Mordru within the Rock of Eternity at the end of the
universe.

Hall had operated as Doctor Fate from Salem since then, with Nabu -
again inhabiting the helm, but no longer controlling Fate - advising
him. The Nelsons' souls still resided within the amulet, and they were
occasionally able to contact the outside world (including Kent once
having encountered the 1990s Starman). Hall's identity is known to a
clever few who have figured it out, and in his secret identity, he
socialized with some of the inhabitants of Salem, being on the whole
more gregarious than his predecessors.

When faced with the monstrous magical might of the being known as the
Curse (a being that Nabu himself had not been able to completely
vanquish), the still somewhat inexperienced Hector was killed. As his
body lay dying in the streets of Salem, Hector's spirit met with Nabu
inside the helmet. Nabu had been verbally abusing Hector ever since the
latter had taken on the mantle (because even though Hector was stated to
have the most power as Dr. Fate, he wasn't living up to his potential).
Finally, after Nabu continued his assault, telling Hector he might as
well die so another could claim the mantle, Hector finally had enough,
decked Nabu and returned to his body. He was able to revive his body and
ended up capable enough to beat the Curse. Now Hector was truly secure
and confident in his role.

On a later adventure to Kahndaq with the JSA, Hector and Nabu clashed
again, as Nabu took control of Doctor Fate, and worked against the JSA,
stating that Hector was simply blindly following his father. While
controlling his host, Nabu undid the magic which had turned the
Feithereans into simple birds and apparently switched over to the side
of Black Adam, who was also an old ally of Nabu in Ancient Egypt.
Although the Society questioned what had happened, Hector's father
Hawkman strode on, stating with a smile that his 'son could take care of
himself'.

Later, Hector with the help of the Nelsons and the other previous
incarnations of Fate was able to trap Nabu in the Amulet and once again
took control. At that same time, Hector's wife Lyta was revealed to have
been imprisoned by Nabu to manipulate Hector. The couple were reunited
as they appeared in Kahndaq again, just as Black Adam was defeated by
the Justice Society. [Hector and Lyta's spirits depart into the Dreaming
in JSA #80. Art by Don Kramer.] With their reunion, Lyta and Hall
returned to the Tower and lived happily, until they were trapped in a
section of Hell by the Spectre, who was going on a rampage to destroy
all magic. The two were dropped atop a frozen mountain, where Hector was
forced to fend off various demons that threatened him and Lyta.
Meanwhile, Lyta was unconscious, and in fact communicating with their
son Daniel, Lord of the Dreaming. Daniel proposed they join him in the
Dreaming, and when Lyta woke up, Hector had collapsed near her, close to
death. She decided to take him up on his offer, and together with
Hector, knowing they could never return, they entered the portal to the
Dreaming. As their physical bodies froze to death atop the mountain,
their spirits joined their son.


Powers and abilities

-   As the Silver Scarab, Hector wore a suit made of Nth metal. This
    metal was developed by his father, Carter Hall, and improved upon
    by Hector. The suit enabled him to fly in space, and project
    solar-powered ray blasts. Without his suit he has super strength
    and invulnerability.
-   As Sandman, Hector had extraordinary strength, the power of flight,
    and lived in a place called “The Dream Stream,” which enabled him to
    see other people's dreams and he could project himself into the real
    world for one hour every twenty-four hours, and could travel through
    “The Dream Stream” almost immediately from anywhere in the real
    world to any other place during that one hour.
-   As Dr. Fate, Hector possessed a wide variety of powers. In general,
    he could fly, was resistant to damage, and had
    greater-than-human strength. Hall was able to "speak" with Nabu, the
    previous Doctors Fate, Kid Eternity, and Lyta through the helmet of
    Nabu, which gave him access to a wide variety of spells. He was
    susceptible to toxins in the air, however.

At his most potent, Fate is an accomplished sorcerer, able to match most
other wizards in the  Universe, but not as powerful as true
extra-human beings such as the Spectre. Fate has been observed throwing
bolts of mystical energy, crafting solid objects out of energy, and
transforming objects into other kinds of matter. The full limits of his
magical skills are unknown.

