HERCULES (also known as HERACLES and HERAKLES) is a fictional Olympian
god in the  Universe based on the Greek demigod and hero of the same
name.

Hercules first appears in All Star Comics #8 (December 1941) as part
of a Wonder Woman story, and was created by William Moulton Marston and
Harry G. Peter, in the first of several incarnations. Later versions
appeared in Superman #28 (May 1944), created by Jerry Siegel and Ira
Yarbrough, Wonder Woman #105 (April 1959) and Hercules Unbound #1
(October 1975) created by Gerry Conway and José Luis García-López.


Fictional character biography

Pre-Crisis on Infinite Earths

[Hercules Unbound #1, by José Luis García-López.] In the universe of
, Hercules was used on occasion before Crisis on Infinite
Earths as a foil to Superman. In these Silver Age books, Hercules
usually appears as a giant, and frequently tests his strength with the
Bible character Samson and another giant named Zha-Vam, who he granted
strength to, as well as with Superman. In one story he is transported to
the 20th century by Lex Luthor, and, in the guise of reporter Roger
Tate, falls in love with Lois Lane. He gains power from other Gods and
puts Superman into a 100 yr sleep with the pipe of Apollo, saying he
will only revive Superman if Lois marries him. However Venus realises
what has happened and wakes Superman up. After this Hercules is tricked
into flying back in time with the sandals of Mercury, and loses his
memory of the events. In the Golden Age he was mentioned in the origin
of the Amazons as having enslaved them by tricking Hippolyta into giving
him her golden girdle on the bequest of Ares who hated the Amazons, and
was shown as an ugly muscle-bound man wearing a lion-skin. Oddly enough
an earlier picture of him in the same comic shows him as a man with
black hair and a beard.

In 1975,  produced a comic book series titled Hercules Unbound,
featuring the adventures of Hercules in a post-apocalyptic future.
This Hercules looked different from the other  interpretations - he
had long black hair and no beard. The series lasted 12 issues. It
made use of characters and concepts, such as The Atomic Knights and
the intelligent animals from Jack Kirby's Kamandi series as an attempt
to tie in some of the future series. It was later hinted that this
version of Hercules was actually part of a dream suffered by Gardner
Grayle, but was later shown to have existed somewhere in the Multiverse
and was eliminated during the Crisis on Infinite Earths. José Luis
García-López drew the first six issues and Walt Simonson drew the
remainder of the series. Wally Wood inked several issues.

Post-Crisis on Infinite Earths

Wonder Woman

After the reboot of the  universe in Crisis, Heracles — the Greek
spelling — appeared in the pages of Wonder Woman. George Pérez,
putting Greek mythology at the center of Wonder Woman's world, relates
the tale of Heracles' and his men's conquest of the Amazons and his rape
of Queen Hippolyta, and their revenge upon him.

[Heracles subduing Hippolyta. Art by George Pérez.] During Diana's
Challenge of the Gods storyline, she discovered that Heracles was
transformed into a colossal stone pilar within Doom's Doorway, and was
supporting Themyscira's weight for several millennia. In this stone
state he was tormented and scarred by various mythological creatures,
feeling the pain inflicted by them but not being able to do anything
about it. This was the punishment given to him by his Olympian family
for his past transgressions. Gaining his original form back, he begged
the Amazons for forgiveness. Though some of the Amazons still harbored
hatred for their past rapes and humiliation, most of them were moved by
Heracles' newfound humility, and Queen Hippolyta asked her people to
search their hearts for the strength to forgive, which they eventually
did. Doing so herself, Hippolyta not only forgave Heracles, but shared a
brief romance with him before he left the mortal realm to return to his
father in Olympus.

Later, John Byrne did an inconclusive storyline in which Heracles
appeared in the contemporary world and schemed to take revenge on the
Amazons by seducing Wonder Woman. He did this by making an agreement
with a mortal Golden Age superhero named Harold Champion. In exchange
for his identity, Heracles gave Champion admission into Olympus. Once
this was agreed upon, Heracles used the Mirror of Circe to alter his
appearance into that of Champion. He proceeded to befriend Wonder Woman
as a "new" friend, helping her deal with such problems as a
confrontation with a duplicate of the monstrous Doomsday. Heracles'
identity was eventually revealed and he resumed his life on Olympus.

War of the Gods

In the post-Crisis  Universe, the Roman Gods existed separately from
the Greek ones after Darkseid tricked them into splitting up so they
could be worshipped by two different cultures at the same time; only
after the "War of the Gods" did the two versions merge again. So in
effect, both Heracles and Hercules existed, and they merged into one
being during John Byrne's run on the comic.

One year later

A revamped Hercules reappears during the events of One Year Later. Now
shaven and bearing an updated version of the armor worn in the Hercules
Unbound series, his place in the Wonder Woman comic has been renewed as
a fellow agent of Olympus, who occasionally aids Diana and even replaces
her in battle. He is referred to as "WONDER MAN" by Cheetah and Nemesis.
He temporarily sets up base in the Greek Embassy.

Wonder Woman v3 #4 reveals that Hercules lied about his reasons for
returning to Earth. As one of the inhabitants of Olympus who rejected
Athena's decision to remove themselves from the mortal realm, Hercules
journeyed to Tartarus in hopes of recruiting Ares to aid him in
returning to Earth. Instead, he found Circe who, upon hearing Hercules'
story and not wanting to spend eternity in limbo with Athena, decided to
partner with Hercules instead. However, this didn't last long, as Circe
betrayed him. The two part as enemies once Circe magically binds him to
a rock.

Some time before the events of Wonder Girl, but after the events of
"Who Is Wonder Woman?", Hercules encounters and battles Gog (who is
killing gods and those who claim to be gods). After suffering a blast
from Gog's staff, Hercules is incapacitated and encounters Superman and
his Earth-22 counterpart. He enters into combat with the two of them,
but is ultimately defeated. Hercules' physical appearance here is closer
to the one seen in "Who Is Wonder Woman?". In addition, he is described
as a "god" (and not a demigod, as in Wonder Girl) and wears gold
bracelets instead of the gray shackles Zeus will place on him as
punishment.

Wonder Girl

A being claiming to be Hercules' father Zeus eventually frees Hercules
from his prison and informs him that he must partner with his half
sister Cassie Sandsmark. Together Hercules and Cassie try to discover
who is attacking the remaining Olympian gods. Soon into their search
they are attacked by the Female Furies. Hercules stops the fight by
explaining that he's allied with the Furies in hopes of rescuing the
gods, or, failing that, starting a new pantheon with them. The Furies
have their own plans, though, and are only using Hercules to get to
Cassandra. The Furies soon betray Hercules, with Bloody Mary using her
bite to gain power over Hercules, forcing him to do what the Furies
want. The Furies then kidnap Cassandra's mother to lure her into a trap.
Aided by the Olympian, Cassandra goes into battle, being forced to fight
her own brother. The Teen Titans and Wonder Woman herself show up to
help out, which evens the odds. After Bloody Mary is murdered by the New
God killer, Hercules is freed from her spell and immediately saves his
sister from being kidnapped by the fleeing Furies.

After being questioned by Wonder Woman, Hercules tells her he was freed
by Zeus and sought his closest relative—Cassandra—for help. He explains
that Zeus freed him to help stop "the Great Disaster," which Hercules
does not know much about. However, there were two conditions for his
release: he must always wear his gauntlets to remind him of his
punishment (similar to the punishment the gods placed on the Amazons)
and he must give up his godhood, becoming a demigod again. Rather than
being upset, Hercules is happy to be human again and having his mother's
blood flowing through his veins. Although Wonder Woman is initially
skeptical, Cassandra vouches for Hercules, telling Diana that he's saved
her life twice. Hercules is allowed to remain free, to complete his
"labors" and make up for the things he's done.

The series mentions several important facts about Hercules, including
his cycle of crime, punishment, and redemption; gods and other beings
(Hera and Circe being mentioned by name) using him to commit great evil
(such as the death of his family); and his uneasy relationship with the
Amazons and Wonder Woman in particular.

The Hercules that empowers the  is apparently different from this
Hercules, sharing only his name. He is one of the Lords of Magic and
possesses superhuman strength.


Other versions

[Quality Comics' Joe Hercules]

-   A Golden Age superhero, JOE HERCULES, had adventures in Quality
    Comics's Hit Comics from issue #1 (July, 1940) through #21
    (April, 1942). Joe Hercules was an ordinary man from the "North
    Woods" imbued with superhuman strength who became a circus strongman
    and crimefighter, not a god. This character was purchased,
    along with Quality's other characters, by . He makes a
    cameo appearance in the 1993 "Elseworlds" miniseries The Golden
    Age. Joe Hercules is first referred to in a canonical  Universe
    story in Starman, Vol. 2, #35 (October, 1997). He is mentioned in
    a conversation between Ted Knight (formerly the Golden Age Starman)
    and Sentinel (Alan Scott, a.k.a. Green Lantern) and is said to be
    suffering from Alzheimer's disease.
-   During the / crossover JLA/Avengers, Wonder Woman believed
    the ' Hercules to be a villain, assuming he had raped
    his dimension's Hippolyta; however, ' Hercules had
    simply had a consensual relationship with ' Hippolyta.
    Ironically, the  Universe version of Hercules is a hero while
    Hippolyta is a villainess. However, this presents some continuity
    problems as Diana and her mother had already accepted his
    forgiveness, and Wonder Woman had not yet reverted to any
    previous incarnations. It is possible she was using the incident to
    fuel her rage, but she was still threatening approaching Asgardian
    gods that she would harm a subdued Hercules at the end of the fight.
    It may also be possible that Wonder Woman (who, like most of the
    JLA, didn't believe good was championed sufficiently in the
     Universe) was too disgusted at the idea that this Hercules
    had never been punished for what he did to the Amazons to
    think straight.


In other media

-   Hercules appeared alongside Captain 's friend and ally Isis in
    the TV series The Freedom Force, which was part of Tarzan and the
    Super 7. This version of Hercules had earlier appeared in Space
    Sentinels.
-   In 1982, several of the characters from the Warlord series
    received action figures in a line called "Lost World of the Warlord"
    from Remco. Despite his not being related to the Warlord series,
    Hercules (from the Hercules Unbound era) was one of the figures in
    the line.
-   Joaquin Phoenix (credited as Leaf Phoenix) appears on the Superboy
    television series in the season one episode titled Little Hercules
    as Billy Hercules. His character is a boy genius that teams with
    Superboy after an attempt at impressing his crush (by implanting a
    love poem as a virus within the Navy's missile system) goes awry.


Collected editions

-   SHOWCASE PRESENTS: THE GREAT DISASTER FEATURING THE ATOMIC KNIGHTS
    includes Hercules Unbound #1-12 and  Presents #57, 576
    pages, June 2014, ISBN 978-1401242909

