HOLLY ROBINSON is a fictional character appearing in American comic
books published by , commonly in association with Batman. The
character first appeared in Batman #404 during Frank Miller's Batman:
Year One story arc.

Holly is a frequent ally and sidekick of Catwoman. She was trained by
Wilat and her friend Selina Kyle, and temporarily became the new
Catwoman following the birth of Selina's daughter.

In 2004 the Catwoman comic won a GLAAD Media Award for its positive
portrayal of Holly as an openly gay character.


Character biography and publication history

Year One

Holly first appeared in Frank Miller's Batman: Year One as a juvenile
prostitute who lives with Selina Kyle. Holly plays a small but
significant role in the story when she encounters a disguised Bruce
Wayne during one of his early attempts at crimefighting and stabs him in
the leg. Wounded by this attack and a subsequent battle, Wayne escapes
back to his home, brooding on the fact that his enemies do not fear him.
This encounter is an impetus for his creation of the Batman persona. As
such, Holly plays an indirect role in the Dark Knight's origin.

Holly also appeared in the 1989 Catwoman mini-series by Mindy Newell
and J.J Birch (collected in trade paperback as Catwoman: Her Sister's
Keeper), which retold Catwoman's origin based on Miller's take on the
character in Batman: Year One. In this story, Catwoman leaves Holly at
a convent where Selina's sister Maggie is a nun.

Death and return

In 1988 Holly appeared in "The Tin Roof Club", from Action Comics
Weekly #611-614. In this story, she has married a successful
businessman who is actually a mobster. Her new husband has Holly killed
off in his quest to reclaim a valuable piece of jewelry that Catwoman
stole from one of his safehouses. Unable to link Holly's death to her
husband in order for him to be arrested for the crime, Catwoman kills
two corrupt security guards in his employment and frames Holly's husband
for their murders.

Holly's death was ultimately overturned years later, when writer Ed
Brubaker ignored this storyline in order to incorporate Holly into the
cast of the 2002 Catwoman series. Brubaker admitted in an interview
that he hadn't been aware of Holly's death until after he had
reintroduced the character. He addressed this issue in Catwoman
Secret Files and Origins #1 with a two-page story titled "Why Holly
Isn't Dead", in which the fourth wall is broken as Holly contemplates
her own resurrection. It is implied that the Action Comics Weekly
story was erased from continuity as a result of Zero Hour.

As established by Brubaker, Holly had run away from a bad home as a
child, ending up on the streets. She and Selina had met when Selina
rescued Holly from a cop who was trying to extort her. However, when
Selina became Catwoman, she left Holly behind. Holly had joined Selina's
sister, Maggie, at her convent. However she never felt entirely a part
of that world, and a few years afterwards she left the convent with
Maggie. After she and Maggie lost track of each other, Holly became
addicted to drugs and returned to the streets. In this revision of
Holly's history, the events of "The Tin Roof Club" never occurred.

Catwoman, the series (volume 3)

Holly reappeared in Catwoman vol. 3 #1. After a series of brutal
murders of working girls, Holly returns to the apartment that she and
Selina had shared in "Year One," and finding that Selina has returned,
is happily reunited with her friend.

Holly cleans up her act and becomes a sidekick of sorts to Catwoman. She
pretends to be part of the street life when in actuality, she is working
as Selina's eyes and ears, ferreting out what is happening on the
streets of the East End. While on the job, Holly is troubled by the fact
that she still views the world from the mindset of a junkie, even though
she managed to quit drugs several months before reuniting with
Selina. It is also revealed that Holly is a lesbian.

In the "Relentless" story arc, Black Mask attempts to destroy Catwoman's
life with the help of Sylvia, a childhood friend of Selina's who has a
grudge against her. Holly is reunited with her friend Maggie Kyle, but
Maggie is kidnapped and tormented by Black Mask. Holly is also beaten
and kidnapped, and eventually Holly kills Sylvia to save Selina's life.
Holly is severely traumatized by these events and isolates herself for a
time. She steals some of Maggie's painkillers, but doesn't take any of
the drugs, and heals to some degree when she reconnects with Selina.

Selina decides that Holly needs some time away from Gotham to heal after
the events of "Relentless", and the two embark on a road trip in
Catwoman #20-24 (collected in trade paperback as Catwoman: Wild
Ride). Selina arranges for Holly to be trained by Ted Grant (Wilat).
They then travel through several cities before ending up in St. Roch,
where it is revealed that Selina and Slam Bradley have located her
brother Davey. She finds him working at a bar and learns that he had
also run away, and had traveled around the world.

Later in the series, Holly becomes a den mother to a group of street
kids known as the Alleytown Gang, who act as informants for Catwoman.

The new Catwoman

After the events of Infinite Crisis,  jumped forward in time.
In the "One Year Later" storyline, Holly Robinson has taken over as the
new Catwoman at the request of Selina Kyle, who has decided to retire
from the role after becoming pregnant.

In Catwoman #53, Holly Robinson makes her first appearance as
Catwoman; at the close of the issue she is ambushed by the Angle Man.
Although Holly escapes, she is caught on film administering a brutal
beating to Angle Man. Reluctant to ask Selina for help, Holly turns
instead to Ted Grant.

Holly is arrested and takes the blame for the murder of Black Mask
(Selina had actually committed the crime). She is rescued from jail by
Selina and takes a short break from being Catwoman. While Selina is
getting Holly's name erased from the police database, Holly again suits
up as Catwoman to stop a new villainess named Blitzkrieg from executing
a young girl on a live video-feed to the internet. Holly manages to save
the girl, but not before she is unmasked on the live webfeed.

After the rescue, Holly runs into Detective Lenahan, a Gotham cop who
has become fixated on capturing Catwoman. They are confronted by Hammer
and Sickle, who want Selina dead, and are perfectly willing to dispose
of Holly in the meantime. Lenahan is killed by the Russian
supervillains, but Selina arrives in time to save Holly. The police
assume that Holly and Catwoman are responsible for Lenahan's death after
finding the two women next to his decapitated corpse in Catwoman #67.

Holly and Selina manage to escape from the GCPD and defeat Hammer and
Sickle. However, Holly is now wanted for Lenahan's murder and her
identity as Catwoman is public knowledge. She exits the series in
Catwoman #69 and begins a new life as a fugitive.

Countdown

Holly first appears in Countdown #47; she rescues an elderly homeless
man, moving him away from debris falling from a destroyed building.
Homeless herself and on the run for the murder of Black Mask, she is
offered a place to stay by a mysterious woman wearing a stola or chiton
who goes by the name Athena. Holly accepts the offer to stay at an
Athenian Women's Shelter, which houses battered and abused women. One of
the residents is a reformed Harley Quinn.

After some time at the women's shelter, it eventually becomes apparent
that Athena, running the shelter, is in fact the nefarious Granny
Goodness who takes to training these women - Holly and Harley among them
- to be her new Female Furies. After they are brought to an island for
training, Holly and Harley meet the Amazon queen Hippolyta, and
encounter Mary . The group reveal Granny's deception. Holly,
Harley and Mary follow Granny Goodness as she retreats to Apokolips.
With Mary's help, the group manages to free the Greek gods, and Holly is
granted the powers of Diana (Goddess of the Hunt) as a reward and
displays both archery skills and feral, cat-like physical enhancements.
After returning to Earth, Holly loses these powers. After witnessing the
"Great Disaster" on Earth-51, she returns to Gotham City alongside Jason
Todd and Harley, with whom she leaves at the end of the series.

In the first issue of the series Gotham City Sirens, it is mentioned
that Holly no longer lives with Harley Quinn, and has decided to begin a
new life elsewhere with money she received after helping Selina steal
Tommy Elliot's fortune.


Skills, resources and abilities

Holly has no meta-abilities. She has been taught stealth, athletics,
hot-wiring, lock-picking, thieving, acrobatics, and martial arts by
Selina. Ted Grant trained her in a form of kick-boxing adapted for
street use, as well as English boxing. She has also spent time at a
Female Furies training camp. She is proficient in the use of firearms,
knives, and the whip. As of Countdown to Final Crisis #10, Holly had a
portion of the cunning and skill of Diana, Goddess of the Hunt. While
she possessed these powers, she was an excellent marksman, and had the
ability to track people by their scent. She lost these powers after
returning to Earth.


In other media

Film

-   Holly Robinson appears in the 2011 direct-to-video animated film
    Batman: Year One voiced by Liliana Mumy. A disguised Bruce Wayne
    encounters her as a prostitute on East End who draws Bruce into a
    battle with her pimp Stan.
-   Holly Robinson appears in the 2011 direct-to-video animated
    short-film  Showcase: Catwoman voiced again by Liliana Mumy.
    Here she is kidnapped by human slave traders while attempting to
    leave Gotham. Her tracking and eventual rescue by Selina is the plot
    of the film.
-   In The Dark Knight Rises, Juno Temple's character Jen plays a very
    similar role to Holly Robinson.

Video games

-   In an interview tape in Batman: Arkham City, Hugo Strange
    threatens to put Holly in Arkham City if Catwoman continues to try
    stealing from him, causing Catwoman to threaten killing Strange if
    he ever does something to Holly. Strange is forced to threaten
    Holly's life multiple times during other tapes when Selina acts
    defiantly, though in the final tape Hugo tells Catwoman Holly is
    safe, and that he has no interest in Holly unless she lands herself
    in Arkham City. As Holly never has any physical or vocal presence in
    the game, her fate in the game is unknown, though it is likely she
    remained out of Arkham City.

