HOPPY THE  BUNNY is a fictional comic book superhero and funny
animal originally published by Fawcett Comics as a spin-off of Captain
. He was created by Chad Grothkopf (1914–2005), and debuted in
Fawcett's Funny Animals #1 (Dec. 1942). Hoppy later became a property
of , and has made periodic appearances in Captain
-related stories.


Publication history

Hoppy debuted in Fawcett's Funny Animals #1, and appears in nearly
every issue of that comic's run. He also starred in his own 15-issue
series, Hoppy the  Bunny (Dec. 1945 – Sept. 1947), which
featured several Hoppy stories per issue, along with stories featuring
his old co-stars from Fawcett's Funny Animals.

For a span of five issues (#49–54, May–Oct. 1947), Hoppy made no
appearances in Fawcett's Funny Animals; these issues featured Billy
the Kid and Oscar as the lead feature. Beginning with #55, Hoppy
returned as the main feature. In Fawcett's Funny Animals #69 (Feb.
1951), the Captain  Bunny stories were dropped, to be replaced by
stories with just Hoppy. There was no further mention of his career as
Captain  Bunny. In issue #80 the word "Fawcett's" was dropped from
the title, making the remaining issues simply Funny Animals. The final
issue of Funny Animals was #83 (1953).

After Fawcett cancelled Funny Animals, the rights to many of its
characters were purchased by Charlton Comics. Charlton resumed
publication of "Funny Animals" with #84 and continued the series to #91
(February 1956). Hoppy also appeared in Charlton's Atomic Mouse,
though these stories appear to be edited reprints from Fawcett's Funny
Animals. For these reprints, Charlton removed the lightning bolt from
 Bunny's suit, changed his name to Magic Bunny, and changed his
magic word to "Alizam!". He is alternately referred to in various
Charlton books as "Hoppy", "Happy", and "Happy the Magic Bunny".

After the Fawcett characters were purchased from Charlton by ,
Hoppy returned in  Presents #34 (June 1981). Hoppy has turned
up sporadically since, primarily in the The Oz-Wonderland War #2, in
The Power of Shazam!_ #29, and in Tiny Titans #15.


Fictional character biography

Hoppy is a pink bunny rabbit who lives in the town of Funny Animalville,
along with an assortment of other funny animal characters. As revealed
in the origin story from Fawcett's Funny Animals #1, Hoppy is a fan of
Captain . One day he decides to emulate his hero and speaks the
magic word "Shazam!" Surprisingly, the magic word transforms Hoppy into
Captain  Bunny.

[Hoppy's enemy, Captain Black Bunny. Art by Chad Grothkopf] In
Fawcett's Funny Animals #30 (July 1945), an explanation for Hoppy's
powers is revealed. In the story "Hoppy Meets the Wizard Bunny", Hoppy
is hit on the head and develops amnesia. The mysterious Wizard Bunny (or
Bunny Wizard, both versions are used) is watching, and he flies down to
help Hoppy regain his memory. A panel in this story states "Because it
was he who bestowed the magic word and power upon Hoppy, the Bunny
Wizard flies down to Earth to help Hoppy". Eventually the Wizard gets
Hoppy to say "Shazam!" and his memory is restored, along with his
abilities. This is the Bunny Wizard's only known appearance.

The word "Shazam!" has a slightly different meaning for Hoppy. According
to the E. Nelson Bridwell scripted story, The Oz-Wonderland War #2,
Captain  Bunny has the wisdom of Salamander, the strength of
Hogules, the stamina of Antlers, the power of Zebreus, the courage of
Abalone, and the speed of Monkury.

Hoppy's stories occasionally feature his girlfriend Millie, who (like
Lois Lane) despises the meek Hoppy but worships the heroic Captain
 Bunny. Millie has no idea that Hoppy could become the 
Bunny.

Another noteworthy foe appeared in Fawcett's Funny Animals #32
(Oct–Nov 1945). In the lead story of that issue, Hoppy faces Captain
Black Bunny, who is based on Captain 's foe Black Adam. Captain
Black Bunny wears a black costume similar to Black Adam's, though the
bad bunny wears a cape like Hoppy and instead of a lightning bolt he has
a yellow flame on his chest. Captain Black Bunny comes from deep within
the Earth's core and is aided by a gang of imps.

In Hoppy's first appearance in  (in  Presents #34),
Hoppy and Millie find themselves magically transported to Earth-S, the
home of the  Family in the Pre-Crisis  Universe. He aids the
 Family and Superman against Mr. Mind, Mr. Mxyzptlk, and King
Kull. In this story both Hoppy and Millie were depicted as white
bunnies, instead of their usual pink.

Hoppy appears in The Oz-Wonderland War #2, where he fights alongside
Captain Carrot and His Amazing Zoo Crew. His silhouette is briefly seen
in Limbo, where forgotten characters from  continuity currently
reside, pursued by Ace the Bat-Hound, which is the character's last
recorded appearance in the  Multiverse, during the events of Final
Crisis.


Powers and abilities

Hoppy has powers roughly similar to those of Captain . He accesses
his powers by yelling "SHAZAM!" but his pantheon differs. His patron
deities are Salamander, Hogules, Antlers, Zebreus, Abalone and Monkury.

