HOURMAN (spelled HOUR-MAN in his earliest appearances, also referred to
as THE HOUR-MAN, and THE HOURMAN) is the name of three different
fictional  superheroes, the first of whom was created by Ken
Fitch and Bernard Baily in Adventure Comics #48 (April 1940), during
the Golden Age of Comic Books.


Fictional character biography

Rex Tyler

Scientist REX TYLER, raised in upstate New York, developed an affinity
for chemistry, particularly biochemistry. Working his way through
college, he landed a job researching vitamins and hormone supplements at
Bannermain Chemical. A series of discoveries and accidents led him to
the "miraculous vitamin" Miraclo. He found that concentrated doses of
the "miraclo" given to test mice increased their strength and vitality
several times that of normal. After taking a dose himself, Rex found he
could have superhuman strength and speed for the hour that the vitamin's
effects lasted, before returning to human levels.

Keeping the discovery of Miraclo a secret, Tyler decided that human
trials would be limited to the only subject he could trust: himself.
Feeling that the Miraclo-induced abilities should be used for good
purposes, he decided to use the abilities to help those in need; in
other words, he would become a superhero, based in Appleton City. He
received his first mission by placing an ad stating that "The Man of The
Hour" would help the needy. Tracking down one responder to the ad, he
aided a housewife whose husband was falling in with the wrong crowd, and
stopped a robbery. Using a costume he found in an abandoned costume
shop, he started to adventure as The Hour-Man (later dropping the
hyphen). In November 1940 Hourman became one of the founding members of
the first superhero team, the Justice Society of America. After leaving
the JSA in mid-1941 Tyler became one of Uncle Sam's initial group of
Freedom Fighters. He later became part of the wartime All-Star
Squadron.

[All-American Publications' All Star Comics # 1 (Summer 1940), an
anthology featuring "The Hour-Man"] Hourman was one of many heroes whose
popularity began to decline in the post-war years. Eventually, his
adventures ended. However, with the resurgence of super-heroes in the
mid-1950s and early 1960s, interest in the Golden Age heroes returned,
and Hourman was soon appearing as a guest star in issues of Justice
League of America. Like all the other Golden Agers, he was now
considered an elder statesman of the super-hero set.

Unlike some other Golden Age heroes, his character would continue to
grow more and more complex. The idea that Miraclo was addictive,
combined with the suggestion that Tyler himself was addicted to crime
fighting, made Hourman one of the superhero world's first cautionary
tales. Rex would continue to fight both of his addictions throughout the
rest of his appearances. His character was seemingly killed off along
with other Golden Age heroes fighting a time-traveling villain named
Extant, during Zero Hour when he increased his temporal rate to age him
to death. He was recently rescued from that fate by the third
Hourman, initially simply to give him an extra hour with his son in a
pocket dimension called the Timepoint, where Rex would remain for an
hour that would only pass when he was visited by his son. However, when
Rex was virtually gutted by Nemesis in a fight, he transferred himself
to the Timepoint and sent Rick back in his place, leaving Rex to return
to the role of Hourman until the android Hourman returned to take the
JSA to the Timepoint and retrieve Rick. When the Timepoint ended, Rick
and Rex fought to try and return to Zero Hour, but the android Hourman
took his place in that battle. Rex now lives in semi-retirement with his
wife Wendi. Rex has his old Hourman costume, and a bowl full of Miraclo
inside a secret compartment of the grandfather clock in his bedroom
which opens when both hands are turned to 12.

Due to the addictive nature of Miraclo (he later invented a
non-addictive formula), the way that Hourman accessed his powers changed
somewhat over the years. At one point in his career, he would use a
black light lantern (similar to the Golden Age Green Lantern) that would
activate a residue of Miraclo still in his body. Later, in JSA (Vol
2), Johnny Quick theorized that his power stemmed from Rex's metagene,
and that his powers could be accessed without the need for Miraclo. Rex
used the mantra "Man of the Hour" taught to him by Quick (who used a
similar mantra to access his own powers) to gain his strength and speed,
though they were still limited to one hour's time.

Rex later provides technical support for the new JSA ALL-STARS team, of
whom his son was a member, helping them put together their new
headquarters. He is enjoying a semi-retirement with his wife, Wendi.

Rick Tyler

RICK TYLER, Rex's son, took over the Hourman mantle during the Crisis on
Infinite Earths. Rick swallowed some of his father's Miraclo pills to
help him save people trapped in a burning hospital. After serving for a
few years as a member of Infinity, Inc., a team composed largely of
other JSA-member children, Rick began to grow addicted to Miraclo just
as his father did. He spent many years after leaving the group
critically ill until Amazo, posing as a future incarnation of the
android Hourman, cured him of his Miraclo addiction. Having conquered
his personal demons and regaining his health, Rick joined the JSA in its
incarnation as a small band of freedom fighters during the "Stealing
Thunder" arc. The android had given him an hourglass full of tachyons
that gave Rick random visions one hour into the future. As a second
gift, Rick could visit with his father in an otherworldly dimension
called the Timepoint, frozen in time, just before Rex's death. At one
point, Rick is severely injured in battle, and switched places with his
father to save his life. Tyler, the android known as the third Hourman,
took Rex and some other JSA members to the Timepoint to save Rick's
life. The one hour Rex was allotted in the Timepoint expired just as
Doctor Mid-Nite and Tyler had healed Rick of his injuries. Father and
son fought over who would perish in the battle with Extant. Ultimately,
Tyler the android took Rex's place and was destroyed when Rick and Rex
returned to Earth. Rick is once again active as Hourman and is an active
member of the JSA. Currently, he is the husband of Jesse Chambers.

Matthew Tyler

Another Hourman, an android from the 853rd century that was modeled on
Rex Tyler's DNA, served with both the Justice League and the Justice
Society for a time. He often perceived himself as Rex and also as Rex's
descendant. Originally possessing the time-manipulating cosmic artifact
known as the Worlogog, he divested himself of most of its power at the
suggestion of Snapper Carr and went about learning to be human. After
failing to stop Extant from escaping a fight, Hourman quit the JSA and
began travelling through the timestream, returning when he received a
distress call from the JSA. As noted above, he is currently believed to
have been destroyed at the hands of Extant in Rex's place, although the
time-traveler Rip Hunter mentioned that his actions would leave him
inactive for a relative year, indicating his probable return. The
android also, before he died, gave his hourglass to Rex Tyler, who hopes
to rebuild him. The android briefly used the alias MATTHEW TYLER and was
often simply called TYLER.


Powers and abilities

Neither Rex nor Rick have any innate powers (though it was theorized
once that their powers derive from a metagene, like most 
superheroes). Any superhuman abilities they display are derived from the
use of Miraclo. Taking Miraclo grants a user several abilities for the
span of an hour. Most obvious are the superhuman strength, durability,
increased resistance to physical damage (to the extent of being
impervious to small arms fire) and speed enhancements. Other, lesser
known and mentioned powers include night vision and the ability to
survive underwater. Rex and Rick both took Miraclo in pill form, but
Rick currently uses a transdermal patch.

The amount of Miraclo that can be taken per day has varied. Normally, it
is once a day, but in some instances, Rex has been shown taking another
pill as soon as an "Hour of Power" runs out. Miraclo works specifically
on the Tylers and may or may not work on others who take it. In one
instance it worked on an animal, Dr. Mid-Nite's owl, Hootie as well as
the villain Bane.

Rex and Rick both wore an hourglass around their necks given to them by
the Hourman Android. It was filled with energized tachyons, time in its
most basic form. It gives Rick "time vision," flashes of events that
will happen exactly one hour later as well as the ability to touch those
out of phase with normal time. The latter effect comes to anyone holding
the hourglass. Rex displayed neither of these abilities.

"Tyler" is often simply called an android, but is actually an
intelligent machine colony (possibly a form of nanotechnology) created
by Tylerco in the far future. If damaged, this colony can effortlessly
multiply and repair. His software is encoded with the genetics of Rex
Tyler, giving him all of Rex's memories. He originally possessed the
Worlogog, which gave him complete control over time. He later gave all
but a shard of it up, but not before he absorbed all of Batman's
memories of the JLA.

Though not as powerful as he was originally, Tyler still retained super
strength, durability, and speed equivalent to a person using Miraclo. He
was able to access an "Hour of Power," sixty minutes during which he had
power over time. He can do many things with this control: move between
picoseconds, travel though time, use his own time vision (which allows
him to see a person's past and future as well as age) or make people and
things younger, slow a person down until essentially frozen, create
tunnels between different time periods, and share power with other
individuals (though the amount of time that he provides them power for
directly takes away from his sixty minutes). Tyler activates the Hour of
Power at will and the hourglass on his chest keeps count of the time.
There seems to be some doubt how often he can use his Hour of Power.
Like the other Hourmans' use of Miraclo, sometimes Tyler is said to only
have one Hour of Power a day, while at other times he simply must wait
another hour to recharge before he can reactivate.

Tyler also has a timeship that he can summon from the timestream. It is
connected to him and reacts to his thoughts. It normally appears as a
Viking-style wooden sailing ship adorned with clocks, but it can change
form as Tyler dictates to anything from a simple wooden skiff to a
futuristic spaceship and also be used as a weapon, as when Hourman made
a large hand out of it to trap Extant. The ship can travel through time,
to alternate timelines, or through hypertime.


In other media

Television

-   The Rick Tyler version of Hourman appears as a member of the Justice
    League in Justice League Unlimited. In the episode "Panic in the
    Sky", he can be seen injecting Miraclo via a button on the wrist of
    his gauntlet, the same way Rick does in the comics.
-   The Rex Tyler version of Hourman appears in the Batman: The Brave
    and the Bold episode "The Golden Age of Justice" voiced by Lex
    Lang. This version uses an hourglass shaped device to fuel his
    powers instead of Miraclo. He appears as a member of an aged
    Justice Society.
-   Hourman's hourglass was seen on display in the Justice Society
    headquarters in the Smallville two-part episode
    "Absolute Justice".
-   In late 2011, The Hollywood Reporter announced that a live action
    Hourman series was being developed for the CW.

Film

-   In Justice League: The New Frontier, Superman briefly mentions to
    Wonder Woman that Hourman is dead; Superman was probably referring
    to Rex Tyler version. Hourman is also seen in the opening credits of
    the film which show how he dies, being chased by police officers on
    the rooftops (due to the ban of the vigilantes) he falls to
    his death. In the original comic of New Frontier, it is revealed
    that Hourman is alive and held by the government; this sequence is
    not in the adaptation.

Action figures

-   Rex Tyler was released as part of the  Universe Classics toyline
    in 2010. He was also released as part of the  Direct's "Golden
    Age" toyline in 2001.
-   Rick Tyler was released as part of the  Direct's "Justice Society
    of America" toyline in 2010.
-   Matt Tyler was released as part of  Direct's "Amazing Androids"
    toyline in 2000.

Miscellaneous

-   The Rex Tyler version of Hourman appeared in the Robot Chicken
    episode "Tapping a Hero" voiced by Seth Green. He was promoting an
    erectile dysfunction pill guaranteed to make "you an hour-man, just
    like me! (If you become four-hourman, see a doctor)"

