IBIS THE INVINCIBLE is a fictional character, a comic book superhero
originally published by Fawcett Comics in the 1940s and then by 
Comics beginning in the 1970s. Like many magician superheroes introduced
in the Golden Age of Comics, Ibis owes much to the popular comic strip
character Mandrake the Magician. A second Ibis, successor of the first,
was introduced in 2007.


Publication history

The original Ibis first appeared in Whiz Comics #2 (February 1940),
and was created by Bill Parker and Bob Kingett. When superheroes
declined in popularity in the early 1950s, Ibis and the other Fawcett
characters ceased publication. They were later licensed and eventually
bought outright by  in the 1970s. The second Ibis first
appeared in Helmet of Fate: Ibis the Invincible #1 (January 2007), and
was created by Tad Williams and Phil Winslade.


Fictional character biography

Prince Amentep

Ibis begins his life as AMENTEP, a prince of ancient Egypt who was in
love with the beautiful Princess Taia of Thebes. As a young man, Amentep
is given the "Ibistick", a talisman of incredible power, by the Egyptian
god Thoth, who empowers the talisman after Ibis was overthrown.
Amentep's throne is eventually usurped – with the aid of a demonic army
conjured up by the evil god Set – by a cruel magician known as the Black
Pharaoh. When Taia, who is under the protection of Osiris, refuses to
marry him, the Black Pharaoh shoots her with a poisoned arrow. Using his
Ibistick, Amentep places his beloved in suspended animation to allow her
to heal. He casts a similar spell upon himself, hoping to be present
when Taia revives.

4000 years later, the mummy of Amentep returns to life in an American
museum in 1940 (this was later revealed to be the work of the wizard
Shazam). Now called "Ibis", Amentep sets out in search of his beloved,
eventually finding her at another museum. Seeking to adjust to this
new world, Ibis uses his vast powers to become a crimefighter.

Ibis can do almost anything with the power of the Ibistick: build
force-fields around cities, transport himself and others, heal or
destroy people, bring people back to life or summon spirits, give
superhuman powers, and even make objects appear out of thin air. Without
the wand however, he is powerless, and this weakness is frequently
exploited by his enemies. The Ibistick apparently vibrates in the
presence of evil, at one point it even wakes him up. Taia was once shown
using the wand to make lightning strike a foe of Ibis, and often uses it
at other times. It can be used by anybody, but not to cause harm
directly to Ibis, or it will backfire on the user. It cannot be used
directly against certain magics.

Ibis and Taia next appear in a Justice League/Justice Society crossovers
as members of a team referred to as Shazam's Squadron of Justice. These
heroes live in a parallel universe on a world called Earth-S. Along with
many other Earth-S characters, they were imprisoned in Doctor Sivana's
Suspendium globe, but released twenty years later when it drifted near
the Sun. Ibis was a member of the Squadron of Justice, organized to
defeat King Kull when he paralyzed the  and tried to destroy all
three Earths. Ibis helped stop Mr. Atom from destroying the futuristic
City of Tomorrow on Earth-One.

After the Crisis on Infinite Earths, Ibis and Taia were retconned as
part of the Golden Age of the  Universe, in which Ibis served
alongside other wartime heroes in the All-Star Squadron. As noted in
Starman #40 (March 1998), Ibis tends to operate out of Fawcett City
like other heroes, including Bulletman, Minute Man, Spy Smasher and the
duo of Mr. Scarlet and Pinky.

Ibis was reintroduced in the modern  Universe in The Power of
Shazam!_ #11, in which he is resurrected by Mary  and "Uncle"
Dudley to rescue the wizard Shazam from Hell, where he had been
imprisoned by the demoness Blaze. In Zatanna #1, part of the Seven
Soldiers miniseries, Ibis and Taia presumably perish along with Doctor
Thirteen and Timothy Ravenwind at the hands of Gwydion during a seance
conducted by Zatanna. The sorceress blames her own shortcomings for
their deaths. 

Ibis had a cameo in Infinite Crisis, in a scene showing the return of
the Fawcett superheroes to Earth-S. A modernized version of Ibis
appeared in 52 #10 as the Egyptian representative in Black Adam's
coalition. It is not known if this Ibis is the same character.

Danny Khalifa

Amentep's successor is an Egyptian American boy named Danny Khalifa.
Danny is given the nickname "Osama" at school due to the events of 9/11
and becomes the brunt of prejudice and bullying. Due to his ancient
bloodline, Danny is chosen by Amentep to be his successor. He inherits
the Ibistick and is thrust into a conflict between ancient Egyptian
gods. As Ibis, Danny prevents the helmet of Doctor Fate from falling
into the hands of the dark god Set. Danny is assisted by the deity
Thoth, who becomes his mentor and frightens away the bullies.

Reign in Hell

Ibis returns to seek his new apprentice's services during the Reign in
Hell crisis. Tensions between the major demons and the hell-empowered
heroes and villains erupt into a struggle for the control of the Hell
dimension. Danny accepts the summons. He is assisted by Black Alice, who
offers guidance and covers for his absence on Earth. While in Hell,
Black Alice betrays him to ensure her own safety, abandoning him to
Neron's forces. He is later seen alive on Earth fighting against
Frankenstein after being corrupted by the energy of the Starheart.


In other media

Ibis' Ibistick will appear in the upcoming series Constantine.

