ICEMAIDEN (SIGRID NANSEN) is a fictional character, a comic book
superheroine in the  universe. She was the first heroine to use
the name, and for a time was replaced by Ice. She is also one of the few
bisexual superheroines in the  Universe.


Fictional character biography

Global Guardians

Sigrid Nansen received her powers as the result of an experiment funded
by the Norwegian government. In an attempt to please both her
overbearing scientist mother (who constantly belittled her for not
having a boyfriend and not being a top scientist) and the Norwegian
government, Sigrid reluctantly agreed to the experiments. The goal was
to duplicate the abilities of what at the time were a legendary tribe of
Ice-people; the experiment was a success, though as a side-effect
Sigrid's skin was permanently turned blue. Taking the name Icemaiden,
she joined the Global Guardians as her country's representative to that
international super-team.

Legends

During the  miniseries Legends (1986) the people of the United
States were turned against all heroes, superheroes, and metahumans; the
President even decreed that no costumed hero could operate legally. This
did not affect the Global Guardians, however, who worked outside of the
US. During this time, what Sylvester Pemberton referred to as the "Great
Super-Hero Scare" Doctor Mist sent Icemaiden, along with Rising Sun,
the Tasmanian Devil, and the Green Flame to Canada to run security for
the international Trade Conference. Icemaiden fell victim, however, to
the group calling itself Injustice Unlimited, and was hypnotized into
serving the villains. This resulted in her traveling to Greenland with
Jade and the new Icicle on a mission to find and free Solomon Grundy. In
the end the villains were defeated and Icemaiden regained her free
will.

Resignation

Upon the discovery of a real tribe of Ice-people, their princess Tora
Olafsdotter (Ice) joined the Global Guardians. This led Sigrid to quit
the team.

Justice League

Years later, after Ice had left the Global Guardians, joined the Justice
League International, and was killed by the Overmaster, Sigrid
re-emerged. She chose to honor the fallen heroine by serving as her
replacement in the Justice League.

There were hints of a romantic relationship with her teammate Fire, but
this was all part of a plan hatched by Sigrid. Realizing Fire was not
coping with Ice's death (and Fire was attempting to control her, much
like her mother had done growing up), she physically remade herself
resemble Ice and showed romantic feelings toward Fire. The shock made
Fire realize that Ice was gone, and she could not recreate the past.
During her time in the JLA, she was disliked and criticized by Guy
Gardner, who had also not come to terms with Ice's death.

She left active duty with the League after she and several others were
heavily wounded during the attack of the Hyperclan (White Martians).
Later recovered, Sigrid resumed her super-hero career and is assumed to
have eventually joined an unofficial branch of Justice League Europe.
That League chapter was, however, infiltrated by the Mist, who
apparently lured Icemaiden away and subsequently disguised herself as
the blue-skinned heroine before killing three League members: Crimson
Fox, Amazing Man, and Blue Devil.

In the same story, it was revealed that Mist covertly contacted
Icemaiden and informed her of a supposed threat facing her homeland of
Norway, and she must defeat the threat without informing anyone until
afterwards. Icemaiden left during the middle of the night, and Mist
replaced her within the JLE by the next morning. The JLE did not know
that Mist replaced Icemaiden until Mist began her attacks against them.
Mist informed Crimson Fox that the threat she informed Icemaiden about
was not real, and that she had sent Icemaiden on an ultimately fruitless
search so that she could disguise herself as Icemaiden and replace her
on the team.

One Year Later

After the "Infinite Crisis" storyline, it was revealed that Icemaiden
had at some point been abducted by the supervillain Warp, a capture paid
for by a mysterious "organ-napper" who turned out to be former film
actress Delores Winters. Winters—believed to have been killed decades
earlier by the Ultra-Humanite—longed for new flesh to replace her own
aging skin and had her personal physician surgically flay the Icemaiden
in order to harvest her superpowered skin. Icemaiden did not die,
however, and eventually was placed, comatose, into a hydration womb
within a facility of S.T.A.R. Labs. Later, in the same story, the
hydration womb is cracked. It is unknown if Icemaiden survived.

It is mentioned in this story that Icemaiden has alabaster skin,
although she had blue skin in all of her prior appearances save for her
appearance in Extreme Justice.

Delores was recently killed in a battle with Batwoman, and her corpse
was taken by the Justice League. It is unknown if they will be able to
remove the skin.


Relationships

Sigrid is one of the few bisexual superheroines operating in the 
Universe. She was flirtatious with Nuklon during their time together in
the JLA, and then later became involved with Olivia Reynolds, the
ex-girlfriend of Green Lantern Hal Jordan.

She also showed interest in Judaism during her conversations with
Nuklon.


Powers and abilities

Icemaiden possesses abilities surrounding ice, snow and cold. Sigrid's
powers are not natural as they are the result of scientific experiments,
imitating the Nordic mythical Ice-people. Whether it was a success
because she had a dormant gene is unknown.

Icemaiden can control small quantities of snow and ice, and project ice
shields and icicles from her body, but her greatest ability is to become
very cold and create ice armor in times of great stress. Her powers are
closely linked to her mental state.

