ICON is a superhero in the comic books distributed by .


Publication history

An original character from Milestone Comics, he was created by Dwayne
McDuffie and M. D. Bright and first appeared in Icon #1 (May 1993).

At the 2008 Comic-Con,  executive editor Dan DiDio announced
that the Milestone Universe and characters would be revived and merged
into the  Universe proper. This was the result of a complex
publication/distribution agreement drawn up between the two independent
companies. The merger treated the characters as new to the universe,
ignoring the Worlds Collide crossover of 1994. Icon, along with Shadow
Cabinet, appeared in Justice League of America (vol. 2) #27, written
by Dwayne McDuffie.


Fictional character biography

In 1839, an alien starliner malfunctioned and exploded, jettisoning a
life-pod in the middle of a cotton field in the American South.
The pod automatically altered the appearance of its passenger, named
ARNUS, to mimic the first sentient life-form who discovered him. That
life-form was an enslaved black woman named Miriam, who saw the pod
crash land and adopted Arnus as her son.

In the present, Arnus is still alive. He did not age visibly beyond
adulthood; to disguise this fact, he periodically assumes the identity
of his own son. By the late 20th century, he is posing as AUGUSTUS
FREEMAN IV, the great-grandson of his original human identity. Still
marooned, Arnus/Freeman waits for Earth's technology to catch up to his
lifepod's. Secretly possessing superpowers that belie his human
appearance, he has always performed quiet acts of charity.

However, when Freeman's house is broken into, he uses his powers for the
first time in decades, an action witnessed by one of the intruders,
Raquel Ervin, an idealistic teenage girl who was born in Paris
Island, the poorest, most gang-ridden neighborhood in Dakota City. Her
prospects seemed fairly bleak until this encounter with Freeman. After
seeing Freeman use his powers, Raquel persuades him to become a
superhero named ICON, with herself as his sidekick, Rocket.

Personality

Icon is portrayed as a very intelligent, somewhat stiff kind of person.
Due to his upper-class job as a corporate lawyer and "proper" way of
speaking, he is often criticized as being a "sell out" or "white
washed". Icon usually prefers to do everything by the book instead of
acting on instinct. During the majority of his series, he mostly
fought plain street criminals and those who gained powers from Dakota's
Big Bang.

 Universe

Following the death of Darkseid (as chronicled in Final Crisis), the
space-time continuum was torn asunder, threatening the existence of both
the Dakotaverse and the mainstream  universe. The being known as
Dharma was able to use energies that he harnessed from Rift (upon that
being's defeat in Worlds Collide) to merge the two universes, creating
an entirely new continuity. Only Dharma, Icon and Superman are aware
that Dakota and its inhabitants ever existed in a parallel universe.

In the revised continuity, Icon and the other Milestone characters have
apparently always existed in the  Universe. Augustus appears to have
an existing friendship with Superman and to be a member of the Shadow
Cabinet. Icon also claims that, due to his status as a citizen of the
Cooperative (an alien civilization in the Hoag's Object galaxy), he is
exempt from prosecution at the hands of the Green Lantern Corps.
Icon later plays a crucial role in the JLA's battle with the star-eating
villain Starbreaker.

After the events of New Krypton lead to Kryptonians being banned from
Earth, it is shown that the General Sam Lane is keeping tabs on Icon. It
is unclear whether Lane believes Icon is a Kryptonian, or if he is
merely watching him due to his friendship with Superman.

As of 2012, Icon has yet to be seen in 's The New 52 universe, outside
of a brief cameo in Static Shock #8.


Supporting characters

-   RAQUEL ERVIN/ROCKET – Saw Augustus Freeman IV use his powers when
    his home was being robbed, and convinced him to become a super hero,
    as well as take her on as sidekick. All of Rocket's superhuman
    powers derive from her inertia belt, based on tech from Icon's ship.
-   DARNICE/ROCKET II – Raquel's best friend. Darnice took on the role
    of Rocket while Racquel was on maternity leave (one insisted upon by
    both Icon and her close friends).
-   AMISTAD AUGUSTUS ERVIN – Raquel's infant son, named for the Spanish
    slave ship and for her partner, Icon.

[Buck Wild Mercenary Man, artist M.D. Bright]

-   RUFUS T. WILD/"BUCK WILD, MERCENARY MAN" – First appeared in Icon
    #13 "It's Always Christmas" (May 1994); Buck Wild possessed "belief
    defyin' strength" and "tungsten hard skin", but spoke as if he came
    from a blaxploitation film. He was a hero to the local folks, but he
    also took money for his work. It was revealed in his first
    appearance that when he received his powers in 1972, his brain had
    been frozen, which explains his outdated speaking patterns. Wild was
    clearly a parody of 's Luke Cage, complete with afro, gold
    headband and yellow shirt unbuttoned to the navel. In his next
    appearance, he is recruited to take Icon's place—costume
    included—when Icon returned to his home planet. Rocket (Darnice)
    used her Inertia Belt to carry him, making him appear to fly. Buck's
    time as Icon II was short-lived, as he gave his life in order to
    stop Oblivion, a mass murdering alien foe of Icon. In an issue
    devoted to his funeral, it is revealed in a series of eulogies from
    his enemies (although it is unclear how trustworthy these
    eulogies are) that he had taken several other costumed identities,
    all of them parodies of other famous black superheroes. According to
    these eulogies, Buck once used an experimental growth serum which
    turned him into the gigantic "Buck Goliath" (a pastiche of Black
    Goliath). While working with a Captain America-type known as
    Patriot, he called himself "Jim Crow" and wore a winged costume
    allowing him to fly (as with Falcon). As "Buck Lightning" (Black
    Lightning), Buck wore a wrist apparatus that generated
    lightning bolts. At the funeral, Kingfish (a take on Kingpin) used
    the legendary Ruby Begonia gemstone to bring him back to life, now
    able to generate green smoke, the sound of drums tolling doom, and a
    ghost-like double which could possess others and make them do his
    bidding (Brother Voodoo). Darnice, however, tells him that his time
    on earth is over, at which Buck removes the Begonia stone and allows
    himself to die. Icon recounts that Buck serves as an example to all
    of us of how we can be heroes wherever we are.


Powers and abilities

Powers

Icon's lifepod altered his DNA so he would resemble a normal human
being, thus enabling him to blend among Earth's natives. A side effect
of this process was the maximization of his now human/alien genetic
structure. Thus, Icon possesses a variety of superhuman abilities that
are unusual even for a Terminan.

-   SUPERHUMAN STRENGTH: Icon possesses vast superhuman strength that is
    nearly on par with Superman's.
-   SUPERHUMAN SPEED AND REFLEXES: Icon possesses the ability to think,
    move, and react at superhuman speeds.
-   SUPERHUMAN STAMINA: Icon possesses highly efficient musculature
    which produces almost no fatigue toxins, granting him almost
    limitless stamina in all physical activities.
-   FLIGHT: Icon flies by manipulation of gravitons, manipulation of
    magnetic fields, control of his absolute molecular movement, and
    utilizing his superhuman speed. Icon can fly far beyond supersonic
    speeds, but it is unknown if he can achieve nearly the speed of
    light.
-   SUPERHUMAN SENSES: Icon possesses superhuman senses of sight, smell,
    taste, touch, and hearing.
-   ENHANCED MENTAL PERCEPTION: Icon possesses the ability to sense &
    comprehend things on levels that far exceed human capabilities.
-   INVULNERABILITY: Icon seems to possess high-invulnerability &
    durability, being capable of withstanding tremendous impact forces,
    high caliber bullets, exposure to temperature and pressure
    extremes, and powerful energy blasts without sustaining
    injury. He is even capable of surviving in the vacuum of space
    unaided. Icon's invulnerability has not been
    portrayed consistently. If he is not expecting an attack, he can be
    injured more easily. For example, in Icon #2, he sustains a bloody
    nose from getting hit in the face with the butt of a rifle that
    surprised him. After being injured by Payback, Icon began
    wearing alien body armor to grant him further protection.
-   REGENERATIVE HEALING FACTOR: Despite his nigh invulnerability to
    injury, it is possible to injure Icon. If injured, his body is
    capable of quickly repairing damaged tissue with much greater speed
    and efficiency than the normal human body.
-   ENERGY GENERATION: Icon has the ability to generate and control a
    radiant energy based on positrons. He can manipulate this energy
    for various effects.

:* CONCUSSIVE FORCE BOLTS: Icon can release positron energy from his
hands as bolts of concussive force.

:* STUN BOLTS: Icon can project low-energy bolts that render human
beings unconscious by disrupting the electrical impulses in their
nervous systems. Icon can also use these bolts like an
electromagnetic pulse to overload electronic devices.

:* ENERGY ENHANCED PUNCHES: Icon can focus positron energy into his
fists, which he can then use to shatter virtually any substance.

:* ENERGY PULSE: Icon can release all of his body's positron energy as
a massive omnidirectional pulse of devastating power.

:* POSITRON FIELD: Icon can detect the presence of Bang Babies within
his vicinity by flooding an area with a field of positrons. The
field interacts with the invisible quantum well surrounding a Bang Baby,
who then glows as he or she gives off mild gamma particles. Hence, Icon
can use these fields to distinguish Bang Babies from other metahumans as
well as normal humans

-   According to Icon, he possesses powers that all humans will possess
    once they evolve past their limitations.

Icon possesses extraordinary longevity, enabling him to age at a vastly
slower rate than that human beings. Hence, though centuries old, he
appears to be no older than forty. Icon's lifespan is typical for a
Terminan and the only power that is not the result of his genetic
maximization.

Skills

Icon is among the Cooperative’s most celebrated mediators. He has
extensive knowledge of the Cooperative legal system as well as decades
of experience in his chosen field. Icon is an equally adept corporate
lawyer due to his mediator background and a century’s worth of
experience in American law.

Icon is also a formidable combatant, whose fighting skills are close to
those of Superman. Icon is well trained in unarmed and armed
combat, having fought in major conflicts ranging from the Civil War to
World War II. Some opponents underestimate Icon’s abilities
since he tries to peacefully settle disputes before pummeling his foes.

Icon is fluent in English and Galactic Standard, the native language of
the Cooperative.


Equipment

Costume

Icon wears a costume composed of alien materials that grant him further
protection from projectile weaponry, energy beams, and intense heat or
cold. On his command, the Info Tool aboard his starship can
instantly construct his costume over his civilian clothing. When no
longer needed, the costume is disassembled, converted back to energy,
and stored in the structural files of the Info Tool.

Transportation

For interstellar journeys, Icon employs his personal starship that is a
gift from the Cooperative. Like all Cooperative vessels, Icon's
starship has a faster-than-light drive that allows it to shift into the
realm called hyperspace. Within hyperspace, the speed of light is not a
limiting factor and thus cannot prevent the starship from quickly
traversing intergalactic distances. Gravity compensators provide
artificial gravity that can be adjusted to the comfort level of the
ship's passengers.

Icon's starship contains a range of highly advanced Cooperative
technology. Two notable items are the Information Tool and the
Maker. Icon's starship is equipped with a local access system that
links directly with the Information Tool or "Info Tool." The Info Tool
is a computerized database of virtually everything anyone within the
Cooperative knows. It even contains very detailed files on the cultures,
languages, history and technology of Sol III (Earth) thanks to Icon's
firsthand accounts of his life on the planet. The Info Tool acquires new
information from written documents, verbal accounts, and visual data
inputs. The database can even scan an item (organic or inorganic) and
store its molecular structure within files called "software." Apart from
storing and retrieving data, the local access to the Info Tool can also
link to and control any computer-operated device or system. This
includes Cooperative technology like the starship's Maker to terrestrial
technology like phone lines or lights.

Because of all the data it has accumulated over the millennia, the Info
Tool is truly self-aware and even has a personality of sorts. The Info
Tool relies on verbal inputs to receive commands to perform certain
functions. In terms of information retrieval, the Tool can respond
either verbally or by displaying its findings via holographic imagers
aboard the starship. The Info Tool remains in contact with Icon via a
communicator hidden in his costume. The communicator's maximum range
is unknown.

The Maker is a molecular factory that can construct any physical item,
molecule by molecule, from structural data files stored within the Info
Tool. These data files are called "software" while the objects created
by the Maker are known as "hardware". The Maker operates by tapping
the vast energies of the reactor for Icon's starship and converting them
into matter used for the construction of hardware. The Maker can create
any item, terrestrial or extraterrestrial, in a matter of seconds as
long as its structure is on file within the Info Tool. These include
medicines, machinery (e.g., vehicles), clothing, and even food. The
Maker can repair or modify constructed hardware by altering its
molecular structure according to the whims of its user.

The Maker can also rearrange the molecular structure of items it did not
create in order to change their appearance or function. To do so,
the Info Tool must first scan the structure of the object to be
modified. For example, Icon employed the Maker to build the starship
garage beneath his mansion's swimming pool.

Icon's starship has numerous projectors through which the Maker can
construct hardware within the vessel. To build an item outside the
vessel, the Maker relies on a special probe mounted on the underside of
the starship. It is the probe that facilitates the Maker repairing
or remodeling Icon's possessions over great distances. Icon has often
employed this feature to repair any damage to his costume.

Icon's starship is also equipped with cloaking technology that can
render the vessel invisible to both the human eye and all forms of
Earthly electronic surveillance. Though not typical for a civilian
vessel, the cloak was installed in Icon's ship so he could use it on
Earth without attracting attention.

When not in use, Icon stores his starship in his "garage," a hangar
located beneath his mansion’s swimming pool. The pool slides out of
the way to provide easy entry or exit for the ship.


Collected Editions

Trade paperbacks

  #   Title                               ISBN                                    Release date                      Collected material
  --- ----------------------------------- --------------------------------------- --------------------------------- ----------------------------------
  1   Icon: A Hero's Welcome            ISBN 1-56389-339-8 ISBN 1-4012-2549-7   1996 (Reprint: October 6, 2009)   Icon #1–8
  2   Icon: The Mothership Connection   ISBN 1-4012-2711-2                      June 8, 2010                      Icon #13, 19-22, 24-27, and 30


In other media

Television

-   While he did not appear onscreen, Augustus Freeman was referred to
    several times in Static Shock through the names of various centers
    and organizations, notably the Dakota-based Freeman Community
    Centre.
-   Icon appears in Young Justice voiced by Tony Todd. He first
    appears in "Revelation," where he and Rocket are shown rescuing
    civilians from a Plant Creature that the Injustice League had
    unleashed on Paris. In "Agendas," Icon and Rocket are considered for
    membership in the Justice League. He officially joins the League in
    "Usual Suspects," while Rocket joins The Team. Alongside the rest of
    the League, Icon is infected and brainwashed by the Starro spores
    released by Red Arrow. During Season 2, Icon acts as legal counsel
    to the Justice League while facing trial on Rimbor for the crimes
    they committed under Vandal Savage's Starro-Tech influence.


Politics

-   Icon is a conservative Republican who holds conservative views on
    economic and social issues, which often put him in conflict with
    more liberal Milestone Comics superheroes, including his sidekick.
    Clarence Thomas was an avowed fan of Icon, to the extent that he
    quoted the character on multiple occasions; upon learning of this,
    Dwayne McDuffie (a liberal) suffered writer's block, out of fears
    that dialogue he wrote would be used in the service of
    conservatism.


Awards

-   Icon was nominated for three Eisners and is a three-time winner of
    Parents' Choice Award honors.


Crossovers

-   Shadow War - Milestone Company-wide crossover. Involved all
    comics, including the newly premiered Xombi and Shadow Cabinet.
-   Long Hot Summer - Milestone Company-wide crossover. Three issues
    of the comic by the same title along with tie-ins in every
    Milestone title. - July–September 95
-   Worlds Collide - 1 Issue. A postal worker named Fred Bentson
    unwittingly becomes a portal between two worlds and two cities. A
    living link between Dakota, home city of the Milestone heroes, and
    Metropolis, home of Superman. Eventually Bentson loses control of
    his powers and transforms into Rift, a cosmic being capable of
    manipulating and reconfiguring matter on a subatomic scale. The
    heroes of two universe come together to stop him and seal the
    dangerous rift between their worlds. This crossover with Milestone
    Universe and  Universe characters included Blood Syndicate,
    Hardware, Icon, Static, and 's Steel, Superman, and Superboy.

