IMMORTAL MAN is a superhero in the  Universe. He first appeared
in National Comics (now ) flagship science fiction anthology
comic Strange Adventures #177 (June 1965). Immortal Man was also a
member of The Forgotten Heroes.


Publication history

Immortal Man first appeared in "I lived a Hundred Lives" in Strange
Adventures #177 (June 1965), an eight-page story drawn by Jack
Sparling. It is not clear who created him. Although not a regular
character in the title, Immortal Man then featured in Strange
Adventures: #185 in a 16-page tale and Strange Adventures #190 and
#198 in 12-page tales. Jack Sparling drew all four adventures, and Dave
Wood wrote at least two of them (#185 and #190). Immortal Man also
featured on the covers to all four issues.

Following this he appeared with The Forgotten Heroes in Action Comics
#552 - #553 (February - March 1984) by Marv Wolfman and Gil Kane and 
Comics Presents #77 - 78(January - February 1985) by Marv Wolfman, Curt
Swan and Dave Hunt, a direct link into  major cross-over event
'Crisis on Infinite Earths. Nothing further was published until an
appearance in Animal Man #23 (May 1990), The Flash vol 2 #48 - 50
(March - May 1991), written by William Messner-Loebs, and a final
appearance written by Dan Abnett, with art by Andy Lanning, in
Resurrection Man 25 - 27 (June - August 1999).


Fictional character biography

Pre-Crisis

50,000 years ago the Immortal Man was Klarn, a caveman leader of the
Bear Tribe, and a mortal enemy of Vandar Adg of the Wolf Clan. Vandar
is made immortal by a meteorite while in battle with him, and Immortal
Man fashions an amulet from a jewel from the same meteorite, a tektite,
discovering it gives him the power of resurrection, super-strength and
the ability to fly, along with other powers. Over the millennia
Immortal Man has been a Babylonian, an Egyptian, Greek, Roman,
Carthaginian, an Arab warrior and a knight, a Mongol and many other
people. Each time he dies he comes back as someone else, sometimes as
an adult, sometimes as a child, and throughout history he is the enemy
of Vandar Adg - who later becomes known as Vandal Savage.

When he first appears in modern times, Immortal Man is an orphan named
Mark with a mysterious past he has little memory of and many skills in
areas such as bullfighting, Japanese Samurai culture and culinary arts
without knowing why. Eventually he returns to the orphanage where he was
brought up and is given a jewel amulet that shows him his past lives and
powers. Shortly afterwards he instinctively uses similar powers to save
a town when a reservoir bursts, but dies when a school boiler explodes
during the rescue. He is next suddenly plunged into the jungle as an
adult 'Jungle Man' some months later, with memories of who he was and
realising that he reincarnates in a new body every time he dies. In
the following months he dies saving a pair of treasure hunters from a
rampaging mythical beast conjured by a mystical helmet, and saves
them again and dies by exploding a rocket bomb constructed by the same
helmet. By this time Helen Phelps, one of the treasure hunters, has
fallen in love with him and worked out his secret reincarnation ability.
She finds him again, but once more he is killed, taking a bomb to a
dimensional rift in space so as to close it.

Years later, Immortal Man summons Sea Devils, Cave Carson, Animal Man,
Congo Bill, Rip Hunter and Rick Flag of Suicide Squad and Dolphin,
with the aim of stopping Superman, who has been infected with ancient
spores by Vandal Savage. Immortal Man calls the group 'The Forgotten
Heroes'. They then help Superman defeat a group of super-powered
criminals under Kraklow the Magician and The Enchantress calling
themselves 'The Forgotten Villains', but Immortal Man is killed saving
Dolphin from a rock flung by The Faceless Hunter From Saturn, then
reincarnated as 'a strapping youth'. Ultimately, Immortal Man
"erased himself from all existence" to save the world during the Crisis
on Infinite Earths.

Post-Crisis

In post-Crisis continuity the meteorite that gave Vandar Adg and Klarn
their immortality was hurled through time by unknown agents and landed
in what would become the Ardennes Forest 1.93 million years ago, during
the Pleistocene Era.

Despite apparently having been erased from existence during the Crisis,
Immortal Man apparently returns as a girl. Eight years later the
rest of The Forgotten Heroes, with the help of Mitch Shelley,
Resurrection Man - who they and he suspect is really Immortal Man -
discover that Vandal Savage has been keeping Immortal Man prisoner for
many years. Together Resurrection Man, Vandal Savage and a reluctant
Immortal Man go up against a creature that had come through time on a
second temporal meteorite - one that Vandal Savage had been tracking,
hoping to use its power to augment that of the first one. This 'Warp
Child' erases many of the world's heroes, including the Justice League
and Teen Titans, from reality, and is only defeated when Immortal Man
melds his 'tektite field' with the creature then overloads it - causing
both to be erased from existence.


Other versions

In Final Crisis: Superman Beyond #1, Superman moves briefly through
Earth-20, where alternate versions of a number of  older heroes
exist as 'The Society of Super-Heroes', a group of 'pulp'-style mystery
men led by Doc Fate and including Immortal Man. Writer Grant
Morrison described it as a '' '1940s retro thing'. '' In The
Multiversity - The Society of Super-Heroes: Conquerors from the
Counter-World #1 (2014), it is revealed that Immortal Man of Earth-20
is Anthro, who was exposed to the same meteorite that bestowed Vandal
Savage's powers on him. He and Doc Fate's Society of Super-Heroes are
Earth-20's last defence from an invasion by their paired evil world,
Earth-40, where the militia is led by Vandal Savage and Lady Shiva.


Powers and abilities

-   Immortal Man gained his powers from future tektite technology, which
    merged with him from a jewel that came from a 'temporal meteorite'
    that crashed on Earth through time. Its creators and purpose
    are unknown.
-   He possesses the power to resurrect as a new persona every time he
    is killed. The reincarnations appears to happen almost immediately
    on death, and he does not always remember who he was before, or
    learns of it later. He usually retains most of the skills he has
    learned in previous lives.
-   Immortal Man also exhibits super-strength and some hypnotic powers,
    as well as minor pyrokinetic talents, and can fly using
    telekinetic power.

