IMPULSE is an identity shared by three comic book superheroes published
by .


Publication history

Kent Shakespeare was the first  superhero known as Impulse, he
debuted in Legion of Super-Heroes vol. 4 #12 (October 1990). Bart
Allen is the second  superhero known as Impulse, he debuted in
Flash vol. 2 #92 (June 1994). Iris West is the third superhero known
as Impulse, she debuted in Flash vol.2 #225 (October 2005)


Fictional character biography

Kent Shakespeare

Richard Kent Shakespeare was revealed to have used the codename in a
flashback sequence in Legion of Super-Heroes vol. 4 #53.

Bart Allen

Suffering from a hyper-accelerated metabolism, Bart Allen was aging at a
faster rate than that of any human being thus causing him to appear the
age of twelve when he was chronologically only two years old. To prevent
him from developing mental health problems, he was raised in a virtual
reality machine which created a simulated world that kept pace with his
own scale of time. When it became clear that this method was not
helping, his grandmother, Iris Allen, took him back in time to the
present where The Flash, Wally West, tricked Bart into a race around the
world. By forcing Bart into an extreme burst of speed, Wally managed to
shock his hyper-metabolism back to normal. Because he had spent the
majority of his childhood in a simulated world, Bart had no concept of
danger and was prone to leaping before he looked. The youth proved to be
more trouble than Wally could handle, and he was pawned off onto retired
superhero speedster Max Mercury, who moved Bart to Manchester, Alabama.
In Impulse #50, it was revealed that Batman actually named Bart
"Impulse" as a warning, not a compliment.

Iris West

Iris West recently discovered that she and her brother were sharing
access to the Speed Force, and decided to end that symbiotic
relationship, taking all the power into herself. Jesse Chambers, guided
by the late Johnny Quick, uses her Speed formula to save Iris' life.
Iris embraces her new role, choosing to take up the mantle of Impulse,
which Bart used before he joined the Teen Titans as Kid Flash.


In other media

The Bart Allen version of Impulse is depicted in the live action series
Smallville (played by Kyle Gallner) as well as the animated series
Young Justice (voiced by Jason Marsden).

