INSECT QUEEN is the name of several fictional characters, created by the
 company.


Lana Lang

Earth-One

The first Insect Queen was LANA LANG, Superman's romantic interest from
his youth in Smallville. In Superboy #124 (Oct. 1965), Lana rescues an
insect-like alien trapped under a tree. In gratitude, he gives her a
bio-genetic ring that allows her to gain the powers of insects or
arachnids (by giving her lower body the form of a particular bug; each
form could only be gained once per day, however.) She decides to use it
to develop the costumed identity of the superheroine Insect Queen. Lana
does not pursue the career for long, though she did gain reserve status
in the Legion of Super-Heroes (in Adventure Comics #355, April 1967).

Earth-Two

The second Insect Queen was also Lana Lang, but the one from the
parallel universe of Earth-2. In The Superman Family #213 (1981), she
as an adult receives a scarab found by her archeologist father in an
Egyptian tomb, not realizing that it was magical. Possessed by it, Lana
became a supervillainess called Insect Queen, with the ability to
control and enlarge insects. She briefly worked with the Ultra-Humanite,
while the latter's mind was housed within a gigantic ant, until she was
saved by the Earth-2 Superman and his wife, the original Lois Lane.
Later, she became an occasional superhero, aiding Superman on at least
one occasion. Note that in the reality changed by the Crisis on Infinite
Earths, Lana never became either Insect Queen.

New Earth

In the new continuity created by the events chronicled in Infinite
Crisis, a new Insect Queen has been introduced. She is an insectoid
alien who first appears in Superman #671-673 (2008). In a nod towards
the Silver Age continuity this alien Insect Queen has remade herself in
the image of Lana Lang.

The Insect Queen comes from the All-Hive, a civilization of giant
insects. Because only one Queen can rule the All-Hive, she and her
followers were sent to colonize a new world, suspended in an amber-like
substance.

Upon contacting Earth, she made an arrangement with Lex Luthor for
assistance in colonizing Earth, including acquiring a body suitable for
the planet. In return for this, she sent some of her people, the Flea
Circus, to assist him in collecting Kryptonite (Superman #651, June
2006). She also began transforming workers on a Lexcorp moonbase into
worker insects.

When Insect Queen returns for her part of the bargain, she found that
Lana Lang was now CEO of Lexcorp. She kidnaps Lang and takes her to the
moonbase, where she metamorphoses into a form resembling Lana, but with
insect-like features, including wings, four arms, antennae and chitinous
plates.

While trying to rescue Lana, Superman is captured by Insect Queen due to
her midges entering his skull and enhancing her psychic abilities. She
then uses his genetic template to create "super soldier-ants". However,
he is freed by Lana, and traps her in her suspended animation amber
before she can use her mind-control powers again.

The Queen makes a return one year later. While attending a student
journalism award ceremony with Jimmy Olsen and Cat Grant, Lana suddenly
collapses, with blood pouring out her nose. She receives a call from
her doctor telling her that he has "bad news" for her. Following
another collapse, Lana is taken to hospital and operated on. She
apparently dies on the operating table, but her body is later encased in
a cocoon by black insect-like creatures, which then starts to crack
open. The hospital is soon engulfed by a gigantic cocoon-like
structure, and a number of workers as well as the Science Police and the
Guardian are taken hostage by an army of giant insects. Supergirl is
soon captured and awakens bound and gagged at the feet of Lana, who is
now possessed by the Insect Queen. The Queen reveals to Supergirl that
during her last encounter with Lana, she injected her with a portion of
her DNA and has been slowly taking control of her body for the past
year, with the ultimate goal of capturing a Kryptonian to use as a
template for an army of hybird insects. Supergirl breaks free and is
able to expel the Queen from Lana's body with help from Kryptonian
technology, and Lana returns to her normal state.


Lonna Leing

The fourth Insect Queen is LONNA LEING of the planet Xanthu, in the 30th
century. Lonna Leing (obviously a tribute to Lana Lang) was a member of
the Xanthuan hero team, the Uncanny Amazers. She first appeared in
Legion of Super-Heroes (vol. 4) #82. Her costume is similar to the
original Insect Queen, and she even has similar powers, as she is able
transform her body from the waist down into an insect or arachnid's body
(like an arthropodic centaur) and assume their abilities. Once she
parodied ' Spider-Man, when she assumed the powers of a
spider and fired webbing from her wrists (using his trademark hand
gestures) to wrap an alien attacker. This version of the Legion was
identified in the Infinite Crisis miniseries as originating on
Earth-247.


Anti-Matter Insect Queen

The fifth Insect Queen is a former member of the Justice Underground, a
team of heroes who oppose the Crime Syndicate of America in 's
Anti-Matter Universe. The Justice Underground is seen in JLA Secret
Files 2004.

As the Justice Underground comprises "good twins" to Justice League
villains, this Insect Queen is the counterpart of the Queen Bee.

