IRON MUNRO, real name ARN MUNRO, is a superhero character appearing in
. Roy Thomas created the character in 1987 for Young
All-Stars. He largely served to replace Superman in stories set during
World War II after the Crisis on Infinite Earths storyline eliminated
continuities in which Superman was active in this period.

After  cancelled Thomas' World War II-set comic All-Star Squadron in
the wake of Crisis on Infinite Earths, the company charged him with
writing a followup series with a new superhero team, Young All-Stars.
Iron Munro was one of several new characters Thomas created as analogues
for popular superheroes written out of the continuity; he stood in for
Superman, with comparable powers and appearance. He was inspired by two
1930s pulp fiction characters who in turn prefigured Superman: John W.
Campbell's science fiction hero Aarn Munro, who appeared in comics as
"Iron Munro", and Hugo Danner, the protagonist of Philip Wylie's 1930
novel Gladiator, who had powers similar to Superman's and is sometimes
seen as an inspiration.

Young All-Stars did not achieve the popularity All-Star Squadron,
which had featured better known characters from the Golden Age of Comic
Books. The series was cancelled in 1989. However, Iron Munro continues
to make occasional appearances in .


Development

From 1981 to 1987, Roy Thomas wrote ' popular series All-Star
Squadron, set on Earth-Two, a parallel universe based on the company's
characters of the 1940s Golden Age of Comic Books. All-Star Squadron
depicts a team of Earth-Two versions of characters like Superman,
Batman, and Wonder Woman fighting in World War II. In 1985,  launched
the Crisis on Infinite Earths crossover storyline, which ultimately
eliminated the company's Multiverse of parallel worlds in favor of a new
unified continuity. This removed Superman and others from the World War
II setting, and  cancelled All-Star Squadron in 1987.

 charged Thomas with writing a followup series with new characters. He
created All-Star Squadron, featuring a new team of World War II-era
superheroes. His concept was that the "displaced energy" of the removed
superheroes generated analogues to replace them; as such, most of the
new cast stood in for the heroes written out of the continuities. Iron
Munro replaced Superman, with similar powers and appearance; Flying Fox,
Fury, and Neptune Perkins replaced Batman, Wonder Woman, and
Aquaman.

Thomas' Iron Munro was inspired by two characters from 1930s pulp
fiction. His name comes from Aarn Munro, the hero of John W. Campbell's
1934 science fiction novel The Mightiest Machine and some subsequent
works. Campbell's character had incredible strength and agility from
growing up on a high-gravity planet, the same explanation for Superman's
powers in early stories. Notably, this is an inversion of Edgar Rice
Burroughs' earlier character John Carter, an earthling whose strength
increased on the smaller planet of Mars. Aarn Munro appeared in
Shadow Comics as "Iron Munro" in the 1940s. Additionally, Iron
Munro is based on Hugo Danner, the protagonist of Philip Wylie's 1930
novel Gladiator. Often viewed as a precursor to and possible
inspiration for Superman, Hugo Danner likewise had otherworldly
strength, speed, and impervious skin. In a nod to Superman's debt to
Gladiator, Thomas made Iron Munro the son of Hugo Danner.


Publication history

Loosely following Philip Wylie's novel Gladiator, the comics establish
that in 1894, scientist Abednego Danner injected his pregnant wife with
an experimental serum. Their son Hugo was born with super-human
strength, speed, and nigh-invulnerability. Hugo's powers led him through
a number of adventures, but set him apart from mortal humans, bringing
him grief. Eventually, Hugo staged his own death in the Yucatán
Peninsula and went into hiding. He briefly returned to Colorado and had
a one-night stand with his high school sweetheart, Anna Blake, who
became pregnant. When Hugo disappeared for good, Blake married a young
businessman named John Munro, who never realized the child she bore was
not his own. Their son, Arnold, began exhibiting superhuman powers of
strength and invulnerability at age ten. Remembering Hugo's troubles,
Anna made her son promise to keep his abilities a secret until he turned
eighteen.

As a baseball player at his high school in Indian Creek, Colorado, Munro
earned the nickname "Iron." He was a senior there when, in April 1942,
Munro saved the superheroes TNT and Dan the Dyna-Mite from a burning car
crash. TNT died but he managed to bring Dyna-Mite to a nearby hospital.
Subsequently, Munro and other new "Young All-Stars" aided the All-Star
Squadron in defeating Axis Amerika. President Roosevelt asked Munro and
the others to join the Squadron, about which Munro was reluctant, but he
accompanied them on a cross-country War Bond promotion.

Soon thereafter, Arn received a mysterious diary written by Hugo Danner,
his father. He learned about his father's troubled life as one of
the 20th century's first metahumans. This led the young hero on a
quest to learn of his father's fate. After having read his father's
diary, Arn turned to the government's secret Project M, demanding to
know the location of the "Dinosaur Island" mentioned in his father's
diary. There he met Georgia Challenger, who led him instead to Maple
White Land in South America. Surprisingly they found Arn's father, Hugo
Danner, who had spawned a new band of "offspring," the Sons of Dawn.
Danner used his father's formula to bestow powers on these Sons of Dawn
and mentioned that the creators of the villain Übermensch had also
stolen that formula.

Arn was forced to oppose his father when Danner ordered the Sons of Dawn
to attack a Brazilian city. The combined might of the All-Star
Squadron defeated the Sons of Dawn and Danner was killed.

Legacy

During the War, Iron Munro also met his future wife, the Squadron member
known as Phantom Lady, Sandra Knight. Before the two of them were
married, Sandra conceived a child (which she never revealed to him). She
confided only in the Atom, Al Pratt, who helped her give the child up
for adoption. The hospital mistakenly listed Al as the father on the
child's birth certificate. The child was named Walter Pratt and later
became the father of Kate Spencer (the current vigilante Manhunter).

After the war, both Arn and Sandra started working for the U.S.
Government as members of the O.S.S. offshoot called Argent._ Arn took
the code name "Gladiator One." The couple eventually married and on
numerous missions came up against his WWII Nazi nemesis, Baron
Blitzkrieg (calling himself simply The Baron and working for the
Soviets). When the couple bore a second child, it was kidnapped by the
Baron when Sandra was on a mission in Communist Poland. The child was
(and still is) assumed killed at the time.

The couple gradually grew apart and sometime in the 1960s, Phantom Lady
disappeared while on a cover mission for Argent. Though Munro later
discovered she was alive, the two were never reunited.

Munro settled in Florida with his friend, Roy Lincoln (the Human Bomb).
There he eventually met the young hero Grant Emerson (Damage). Munro
helped Emerson search for the identity of his biological parents. For a
time, it appeared that Grant might be Arn and Sandra's lost child.
Eventually they learned that Damage was actually the son of the Atom, Al
Pratt, and his wife.

Iron Munro continues to serve as an adventurer and apparently benefits
from extended youth. During the massive war between Imperiex and
Brainiac 13, the Justice Society’s Sand recruited an army of All-Stars,
which Arn joined. Afterwards, he joined the Human Bomb and Damage in
the Freedom Fighters. This group was doomed and Arn lost his good friend
Roy when several of the F.F. were slaughtered by the Society.

Recently, Sandra Knight also learned the fate of the child she gave up
for adoption, Walter Pratt. Pratt became a homicidal maniac. His
daughter, Katherine Spencer has now become Los Angeles' Manhunter. Pratt
died when he was cut in half midstream in teleporation. Sandra met
Kate Spencer,  and months later brought Arn to Kate for an
introduction to her and Ramsey, his great grandson.

Iron Munro became part of a network called Supermen of America after
Superman learned that he cannot be everywhere at once. Along with other
heroes, like Steel, Super-Chief, Supergirl and Superboy, he has a signal
watch that can be used for summons in emergencies. Iron Munro also works
closely with the rehabilitated super-being Livewire and S.T.A.R. Labs
employee Serling Roquette.

