ISIS is a  superhero, as well as a separate Egyptian goddess
also living in the  Universe. The recent superhero character is
modeled closely after the main character of The Secrets of Isis, a
live-action American Saturday morning television program that served as
the second half of The Shazam!/Isis Hour. The television character
appeared in several late 1970s  publications. The more recent
superhero character was introduced into the  Universe in 2006 as a
female counterpart to the character Black Adam, a part of the Shazam!_
family of characters. The Egyptian goddess character has been depicted
within the Wonder Woman comic book.


Fictional character biography

Andrea Thomas and Saturday morning television series

[Joanna Cameron as Isis in The Secrets of Isis.] Like the main
character of the first half of the program, Captain , Isis also
had roots in ancient Egyptian mythology. The Secrets of Isis starred
Joanna Cameron as Andrea Thomas, a high school science teacher who gains
the ability to call upon the powers of the goddess Isis after finding an
Egyptian amulet during an archeological dig in Egypt (this is revealed
during the opening credits only; no "origin episode" was ever produced).
Fifteen episodes of The Secrets of Isis were produced for The Shazam!
Isis Hour, and the character also appeared in three episodes of the
Shazam!_ portion of the show. The Secrets of Isis was given its own
timeslot in 1977, for which seven new episodes were broaast alongside
reruns from the first two seasons.

Isis later appeared in animated form on Filmation's Tarzan and the
Super 7 show in 1980, as part of a segment called The Freedom Force.
She later guest starred on The Kid Super Power Hour with Shazam!_'s
"Hero High" segment. Cameron did not participate in these productions,
with other voice actors taking over the role.

Powers and Abilities

Isis demonstrated numerous powers that manifested when the need arose.
These included flight, super speed and super strength (to a level
comparable to Superman and Wonder Woman), the ability to make objects
levitate, the ability to hold back elements such as rocks and water, the
ability to change the molecules of inanimate objects to allow people to
pass though them, the ability to act as a human lightning rod, remote
viewing, and (at her power's maximum) the ability to stop and reverse
time. To activate these powers, Isis usually is shown reciting a rhyming
chant (the most frequent being "Oh zephyr winds that blow on high, lift
me now so I can fly!"). The medallion Andrea Thomas uses to change into
Isis also gives her apparent limited powers even when in her non-Isis
form, as she is shown communicating telepathically with her pet crow Tut
and engaging in minor mind control even without changing. She also
received a superior hand-to-hand and weapons combat skills from the
goddess.

Love interests

Andrea/Isis' love interest is fellow teacher Rick Mason (although this
relationship is more implied than explicitly stated - the two characters
are simply shown in many episodes enjoying each other's company: going
on picnics, horseback riding, and going for dinner together). As in the
classic Lois Lane example, Mason remains oblivious to the physical
similarities between Andrea and Isis, beyond some idle speculation in
early episodes. In one episode ("The Seeing Eye Horse") a blind
character realizes that Isis and Andrea have almost identical voices,
but otherwise the series never explored the secret identity dilemma in
any serious way. During the abbreviated second season, cosmetic changes
were made to the Isis character in terms of makeup and hairstyle.

First appearance in comics

Isis' first appearance in comics was in Shazam!_ #25 (Sept-Oct. 1976).
She was later given her own TV tie-in book the following month, the
title ran for two years. The eight issue run by  began in
October (1976) and ended January (1979). All stories starred the Andrea
Thomas character from the television series; the book was edited by
Denny O'Neil, written by Jack C. Harris and illustrated by Mike Vosburg.
Like other  characters who have been reimagined, this version of Isis,
though not mentioned or appearing in Crisis on Infinite Earths, can be
assumed to have been retconned out of existence following the 1985 
mini series.

As a goddess within the  Universe

In January 2002,  re-introduced the goddess Isis as one of the
chief gods worshipped by the Bana-Mighdallian Amazons in the Wonder
Woman comic. Although the Bana tribe was introduced in 1989, their gods
were not shown until 2002. Her introduction depicted her in a standard
white sleeveless gown and Egyptian head-dress containing her trademark
symbol. Later, the various Amazon gods were depicted as selecting more
modern appearances for themselves. After this, Isis was then shown as
wearing a black business suit with skirt, long straight black hair and a
neck choker containing an ankh.

Adrianna Tomaz

52

The superhero Isis was re-introduced in the  Universe in the weekly
comic book 52. In this series, an Egyptian woman named Adrianna Tomaz
(an homage to the Andrea Thomas character on the television program)
is a refugee who is enslaved and brought to Black Adam as a gift from
Intergang along with $2,000,000 in gold. Upon freeing her and killing
the emissaries who had brought her to him, Black Adam found her to be
unafraid and highly vocal about how he could change his country for the
better.

After weeks of discussion, during which Adrianna changed the way Adam
looked at the world and inspired him to commit kinder acts, Adam
retrieved the magical amulet of Isis from the tomb of his wife and
children, and asked Captain , now the Keeper of the Rock of
Eternity, to confer its power on Adrianna. The Amulet of Isis had long
ago belonged to another of the wizard Shazam's champions, Queen Pharaoh
Hatshepsut of the 18th Dynasty, who had used it to bring peace to her
kingdom. Upon Hatshepsut's death the amulet became dormant.

[Artwork for the cover of 52 Week Twelve, the debut of the character
as Isis within the main  continuity. Art by J. G. Jones.]

Upon holding the amulet and speaking "I am Isis," Adrianna was
transformed and instilled with the powers of the goddess. She and
Adam then began traveling the Middle East and freeing enslaved children,
hoping to find Adrianna's kidnapped brother. In Week Sixteen of the
series, Adam proposes marriage to Isis, offering a jewel given to
Cleopatra by Caesar; they are wed by Captain , who invokes the
gods of all the Universes and planets. Intergang unsuccessfully attempts
to ruin the wedding with a suicide bomber. Several other Shazam!_
characters attend the ceremony, and Mary  , Captain , Jr.,
Tawky Tawny and Uncle Dudley serve as members of the wedding party. Isis
is a calming influence on Black Adam, transforming him from a ruthless
dictator into a more benevolent figure.

This incarnation of Isis has powers similar to Black Adam's. She can
also heal wounds of nearly any severity. She has control over nature,
related to her mood: rain falls when she's sad even if she is inside,
flowers bloom when she is happy. Her first transformation is triggered
by the phrase "I am Isis," but later transformations use the phrase, "Oh
Mighty Isis," instead.

Adrianna finally locates her brother Amon, who has been tortured and
crippled by Whisper A'Daire for his refusal to join Intergang's religion
of crime and for his multiple escape attempts. Isis stops Black Adam
from taking revenge on the Intergang members. Isis is unable to fully
heal Amon's wounds because they are too deep and complex. Black Adam
asks Amon to say his name; upon doing so, Amon is struck by Shazam's
mystic lightning bolt and transformed into Osiris. Reunited with her
brother, Isis decides to change the world beginning with China. Osiris
convinces her to also change the public perception of the Black 
Family. Isis coaxes Black Adam into joining them in a public unmasking
of their secret identities and a public declaration of their good
intentions for the future. The Black  defeat the demon, Sabbac,
at Halloween when he tries to sacrifice children to Neron, further
increasing their popularity. During a charity dinner with Mrs. Sivana,
Osiris befriends a humanoid crocodile that escaped from Sivana's lab.

Amanda Waller is not convinced of the Black ' good intentions,
and she forms a new Suicide Squad. She sends the Persuader to attack
Isis with his radioactive axe. Osiris rushes to help her, and he cuts
the Persuader in half. Osiris is distraught over the unintentional
death, and Isis whisks him away from the scene. Photographic evidence of
the incident turns public opinion against the Black  Family.
Osiris believes that his powers make him evil, and he blames Black Adam.
A series of calculated events arranged by Intergang lead to Osiris'
death at the hands of Sobek. The Black  battle with the Four
Horsemen of the Apocalypse, manifested in physical forms controlled by
Intergang and Doctor Sivana.

Isis dies when she is infected with diseases from the Horseman,
Pestilence, while she defends Adam against the Horseman, Death. Before
she dies, Isis tells Adam that she was wrong in trying to change him,
and she begs him to avenge her and Osiris' deaths. Adam's path of
vengeance instigates World War III. Several weeks later, an unidentified
individual takes Isis' amulet; Adrianna appears to be trapped inside it.

One Year Later

In Black Adam: The Dark Age, Adam (now under his civilian title of
"Teth-Adam") gets into Khandaq under a false name, and takes her remains
despite a shootout in which nearly all his men are killed. On the
mountains he is forced to eat his servant Hassan who offers himself to
Black Adam. He fails to notice that he has dropped one of her fingers
and her ring at the tomb. He resurrects Isis using the Lazarus Pit. Her
resurrection is short lived, as Adam is forced to kill Isis again upon
seeing her new body rotting away as soon as she has come back to life.
Her bones are then transferred to Doctor Fate's tower, where, with the
assistance of Felix Faust, Adam turns them into a magical conduit to
imbue himself with god-like powers taken from Isis' corpse itself.
Apparently, Isis still could be revived, but every time Adam takes power
from her, her bones become more brittle, jeopardizing a new attempt at
resurrection. Faust reveals that it is Isis' amulet that can revive her,
and that Mary  and Captain  Jr. broke it into four parts and
scattered it across the globe. It is later revealed that the missing
fragments of her body, the reason the Lazarus Pit failed, were being
held by Atom-Smasher who found it when the Justice Society investigated
the tomb. He meets Black Adam and gives them to him.

Finally, Black Adam manages to find the pieces of the amulet and
reunites it with the now-complete skeleton. The spell apparently
backfires, resulting in a shambling, rotting corpse. A séance takes
place in which Isis' spirit swears eternal hate on her husband, before
returning to death. Black Adam flees, laden with guilt, emptiness, and
rage; then Faust begins the real rite, having shown Black Adam Ralph
Dibny's skeleton as a way to hide the real Isis from him, and blame
"her" rotten condition on Black Adam's abuse of their now-shared powers.
So Isis is able to be fully restored to life, even if bound by powerful
spells to drain her will and bind her to mindless obedience. Now a mere
puppet in Faust's hands, Isis' magic is used to free him from his
imprisonment in Fate's Tower by creating a magical doorway through the
tower wall. Felix Faust then drags her away to a hideout, where it is
strongly implied that he sexually assaults the paralyzed Isis.

Later Black Adam, still mourning for her, finds a bloodied flower
sprouting in their family shrine. He takes it as a sign that Isis is
trying to communicate with him, which becomes apparent when he finds a
larger collection of flowers in the shape of the Shazam lightning bolt
symbol, pointing in the direction Adam must go to find her.
Eventually, Black Adam finds Isis and Felix Faust, and Adam forces Faust
to release Isis from his control. The resurrected Isis is far less
merciful and forgiving than before, and castrates Faust for his
treatment of her. Reunited, Isis and Adam travel to the Rock of
Eternity, where they banish Captain  back to Earth as a powerless
Billy Batson, as Isis has turned him back using magic lightning from
saying Shazam from a spell book, and begin setting a plan in motion to
"cleanse the Earth" of evil their way, even recruiting Mary  to
their crusade. The Justice Society come to the Rock of Eternity,
seeking to help Billy, only for Isis to brutally attack them, even
throwing Jay Garrick into the mists covering the Rock, from which there
is no escape. During the course of the fight, the combatants end up
in Kahndaq, where the people praise Black Adam's return. Isis then kills
several of the followers, claiming that they are tainted by this new
Earth. Black Adam attempts to protect his people, only to be attacked by
Mary and Billy, who had been tainted by Mary's power. At that point, Jay
Garrick appears with the spirit of Billy's father, and Shazam, whom the
former had helped Jay recover from the Rock of Finality. Adam is
convinced to return his power to Shazam, so that he could save Isis from
her corruption. Shazam is released from his stone form. In turn, Shazam
takes the power from Isis, Billy and Mary, and transforms Teth-Adam and
Adrianna into statues. Some time later, a shadowy figure appears to the
statues in a bolt of lightning, wanting them to be his "champions."

Brightest Day

After the events of the Blackest Night storyline, Osiris is
resurrected by the White Lantern Entity and returns to Khandaq, vowing
to restore the kingdom to its former prosperity. Osiris takes the
petrified bodies of Adam and Isis and flies off to an unknown
destination. Despite his best efforts, Osiris is unable to return
Adam and Adriana to their living states. He ultimately aligns himself
with Deathstroke and his new team of Titans after being told that the
mercenary can help him return his family to life. Both Adriana and
Teth-Adam are currently stored in Deathstroke's base of operations, the
Labyrinth.

It is ultimately revealed by the White Lantern Entity that Osiris was
resurrected with the express purpose of saving Adriana from her
fate. During a battle with a drug kingpin named Elijah, Osiris
experiences a vision of Isis after falling asleep due to the villain
Pisces. He is told that he is guilty for his hand in the murder of Ryan
Choi, and that in order to free her, he will have to kill more people.
Osiris accidentally electrocutes Elijah after waking from his vision
after yelling 'Isis,' and returns home to find that more cracks have
appeared on Isis' statue. He then surmises that it was Elijah's death
which caused the cracks, and states that he will indeed have to kill
more people to free Isis from her prison. He then kills a guard at
Arkham Asylum using his lightning channelled by saying 'Isis' again,
although he seems to not enjoy this action, saying 'Great Ra forgive
me.' After killing two bank robbers, Osiris is confronted by Freddy
Freeman. Somehow, Osiris manages to steal Freddy's power and give it to
Isis. However, Isis' first words upon being reunited with her brother
are "What have you done to me?" It is soon revealed that the
killings Osiris did in her name have corrupted her soul, causing her to
haphazardly shift between her kind, caring personality and a callous,
cruel one. When Osiris' back is turned, Isis breaks out of the
Labyrinth. She goes on a rampage, unable to stop herself from using
nature to try to destroy the world. In desperation, she attempts to
commit suicide by lightning, but Osiris shields her with his own body.
When they awake, Isis discovers that the corruption has left her, but
she still feels it inside Osiris, and it worries her.

It was later revealed by the Entity that Isis was brought back to life
because she's the one that will aid the Swamp Thing.

Later, Isis aids her brother Osiris in stopping the Quraci soldiers who
are attacking Khandaq. Isis learns that Osiris has become more violent,
killing the soldiers. When the Justice League attacks Deathstroke's
Titans, they were stopped by Isis, who forced them to leave Khandaq at
once. She declared her rulership of Khandaq, and withdrew the country
from the United Nations, stating that they will outlaw outsiders and
recognize no power but their own, and that any intrusion will incite
World War III. The Justice League's only option is to leave and
Deathstroke's Titans leave as well. Isis then tells Osiris that he is
not welcome in Khandaq, because of his bloodlust.

The New 52

In The New 52 Adrianna Tomaz is a young woman who, by fighting
pacifically against Khandaq's evil rule, is opposed to her brother Amon
entering The Sons of Adam terrorist group. However, after he is killed
by Khandaq's forces and she is forced to resurrect Black Adam, Adrianna
decides to violence, with an unknown voice saying she will be chosen for
power.


Powers and Abilities

In order to change form, Adrianna must be able to say "I Am Isis",
thereby invoking spells involving the energies of the extra-dimensional
being once known as Isis on Earth. This spell adds almost a hundred
pounds of impervious godly muscle and tissue to her frame. This spell
seems to be solely vocal; she cannot access this spell if she is gagged
or hampered in some way from talking. The precision of this spell is
somewhat askew. All Adrianna has to say is "I Am Isis" and she is
mystically transformed and instilled with the powers of the goddess. It
was later revealed that the powers that Adrianna draws from Isis are the
most powerful of the Eight Egyptian Gods. When her powers were possessed
by Black Adam, he was able to fight off most of the superheroes on Earth
alone. When Black Adam transferred both his and Isis' powers to Mary,
she was able to easily withstand Darkseid's Omega Beams.

After transforming, Adrianna gained physical abilities similar to her
brother, husband, and the other . She is superhumanly strong and
is easily capable of lifting far in excess of 100 tons, putting her on
the same level as Supergirl, Power Girl, Mary , Donna Troy, Big
Barda, and Wonder Woman. She is also incredibly durable and cannot be
harmed by physical force unless the being she is engaged with is
stronger than her. She is also totally bulletproof and bladed weapons
shatter against her skin. She is superhumanly fast, capable of moving at
speeds past Mach 10 on Earth. She also has far superior reflexes and
agility when compared to normal humans, or even other superhumans. Isis
is also able to mystically fly through the air at incredible speeds and
can travel across and around the planet in minutes. Like the other
, Isis possesses an immense degree of superhuman intelligence,
allowing her to come up with solutions to complicated problems quickly.
Unlike the other , Isis' powers focus on the control of nature.
She has control over water, fire, earth, air and electricity and can
control the weather and the lava within the Earth. These powers are tied
to her emotions. When she cried, it began to rain and when she grew
angry, enormous roses crushed the buildings around her. Simply put, Isis
is nature and can control its every aspect. In addition to her
manipulation of natural materials, Isis possesses the power of
telekinesis, allowing her to lift objects, fire blasts of telekinetic
force, and to create telekinetic shields. Isis' godly energies are able
to heal nearly any wound that she has been inflicted (though she has
died before) with surprising speed. Using a second amulet, Isis is able
to achieve clairvoyance, and is able to see events happening in the
present at remote locations. She cannot use this power to see into the
past or the future, however. Due to her death and subsequent
resurrection, Isis had a bit of trouble controlling her powers for a
time. She stated that this was because Nature had deemed her a failed
subject, but has since regained full control.


Other versions

In the alternate timeline of the Flashpoint event, Isis is mentioned
by her brother, Osiris believing that she has been killed by the
Atlanteans/Amazons war. It is revealed that Isis was held captive by
the Outsider for Black Adam into selling the Outsider his home country,
Khandaq. The Outsider then shot Black Adam and threw him off of his
train, joining Isis as his trophy/prisoner.


In other media

Television

-   The superhero version of the character appeared in the tenth season
    Smallville episode, "Isis". This version of the character appears
    when Lois Lane (Erica Durance) is possessed by the Amulet of Isis.
    An homage to the comics character's secret identity and The Secrets
    of Isis television show also appears: Erica Cerra portrays a
    character named "Adrianna Tomaz", who (like The Secrets of Isis'
    Andrea Thomas) is an Egyptologist and curator of the
    Metropolis Museum.
-   In Young Justice season 2 Episode 18 "Intervention" Zatanna called
    forth the spirit of Isis to give her the power to cleanse Blue and
    Green Beetle of the Reach control.

Video games

-   Isis appears in the MMORPG video game  Universe Online voiced by
    Samantha Inoue-Harte. Felix Faust tricks Black Adam into giving him
    his power in order to revive Isis as a zombie. Faust escapes, and
    the players defeat Isis even though Black Adam vows that Faust will
    pay for his treachery and that the players will pay for sending Isis
    back to the dead.
-   Isis appears in Black Adam's ending for Injustice: Gods Among Us,
    in which Adam returns to Khandaq after defeating a totalitarian
    Superman, and decides with his queen, Isis, to magically separate
    Khandaq from the rest of the world.


DVD releases

Fans of the TV series, with support from Joanna Cameron, lobbied for the
release of the series to DVD for several years. BCI/Ink and Paint has
released three DVD sets containing the TV character of Isis:

-   Space Sentinels /The Freedom Force - The Complete Series -
    August 22, 2006
-   Hero High — The Complete Series - May 22, 2007
-   The Secrets of Isis — The Complete Series DVD Set - July 24, 2007

Despite her stated support for the DVD release, Cameron did not
participate in the release of the live-action series DVD.

