JADE (JENNIFER-LYNN HAYDEN) is a fictional superhero in the . She first
appeared in All-Star Squadron #25 in September 1983.


Background

Jade is the daughter of the Green Lantern (the first character), alias
Alan Scott, and Thorn, alias Rose Canton. Jade's twin brother is
Obsidian, alias Todd James Rice.

Jade is a founding member of Infinity, Inc.. She has worked with the
Justice League and the Justice Society of America. She is also a member
and leader of the Outsiders. After being given a power ring (a spare
one), she joined the Green Lantern Corps. The Green Lantern Corps had
been resurrected and Jade was the first female Green Lantern from Earth.

Jade's romantic interests are Henry "Hank" King, Jr. and Kyle Rayner.
She was ranked 34th in Comics Buyer's Guide's "100 Sexiest Women in
Comics" list.


Character history

[The death of Jade. Art by Ivan Reis.] Rose, Jade's mother, was married,
briefly, to Alan Scott. When she had children by Scott, she gave them up
for adoption because she feared she would harm them. Jade and her twin
were separated.

Jade was adopted by a couple living in the suburbs of Milwaukee. Jade
learned of her twin brother, Todd, when she was in her late teens.
Shortly after she met Todd, the two siblings tried to join the Justice
Society. They were rejected, but joined with other children and protégés
of JSA members to form Infinity inc.

Due to their father's exposure to magical energies, Jade and her brother
were born with metahuman powers. Jade's powers first manifested when she
was a child when she defended herself against Sexual assault. Jade's
powers resembled her father's in that she was able to generate green
energy and shape it into constructs. Jade also inherited her mother's
power of plant manipulation.

Jade made a career in modeling in California then left to pursue
photography in New York City. There, her room mate was Kyle Rayner. Jade
and Kyle became romantically involved. When Jade lost her powers in a
battle with Starheart, Kyle gave her a spare power ring and battery,
thus making her a member of the Green Lantern Corps. Kyle later restored
her powers during his first, short tenure as the god-like Ion. Jade's
power ring eventually passed to John Stewart.


Character development

After Kyle's friend, Terry Berg, was attacked, Jade and Kyle left Earth.
After completing a number of missions, Jade returned to Earth. She ended
her relationship with Kyle after falling in love with another man. Jade
then served as a member, and leader of the Outsiders. Around this time,
Jade assisted Donna Troy and some of the alumni of the Teen Titans in
their battle against the Titans of Myth. Jade also assisted the Green
Lantern Corps in Green Lantern: Rebirth to defeat and imprison the
parasitic fear entity, Parallax.

In the Rann-Thanagar War Infinite Crisis Special, Jade died while
trying to prevent Alexander Luthor, Jr. from tearing the universe into a
Multiverse. Her consciousness and powers lingered until her Starheart
powers merged with Kyle, awakening the Ion, sleeping within him.

In the story arc, One Year Later, Alan Scott lay in a coma after an
attack by the Gentleman Ghost. The original Jade appeared to him to say
goodbye, granting him another portion of her green energy, which
replaced his eye that he had lost during the Infinite Crisis.

Blackest Night

[Jade as a Black Lantern, menacing her former love. Art by Patrick
Gleason.] During the Blackest Night crossover, Jade's remains were
reanimated as a member of the Black Lantern Corps. Jade, a soulless
undead being, used Kyle's affection for her against him. She said his
love for her had brought her back. However, Kyle recognizes her lies
after witnessing the attack of the Black Lantern Corps on the planet Oa.
Kyle became enraged and tried to destroy the Black Lantern Corps. Jade
captured Kyle and tormented him with black energy constructs of
Alexandra DeWitt, Donna Troy, his mother (Moira Rayner), and herself.
This was to remind Kyle of his failures to save the women who were
important to him.

The battle between Jade and Kyle was ended by Soranik Natu, who
activated Jade's ring. The Black Lanterns were then given a new
directive: to devour Oa's Central Power Battery. Mogo caused all of the
Black Lanterns, including Jade, to be pulled down to the planet Oa and
absorbed into its core. There, super-hot magma continually burned up the
Black Lanterns preventing them regenerating their forms.

Return

During the finale of Blackest Night, Jade and a few of the Black
Lanterns were resurrected in their true forms. Jade and Kyle resumed
their relationship. In Brightest Day, Jade returned to the
story. In adjusting to her new life, Jade acknowledged Cade, Kyle,
Soranik and Deadman, now a White Lantern.

Later on, the Justice League found Jade unconscious, held within a green
crystal meteor that had crashed in Germany. The green crystal meteor
was the Starheart, the legendary crystal that gave Alan Scott his
powers and therefore, Jade, her powers. After waking, Jade revealed that
while on Oa, the Starheart had kidnapped her and brought her to Earth in
order to locate her father. However, on learning that the Starheart had
taken control of her father's body, she opted to help the Justice League
to stop him.

Jade joined with the JLA and JSA in order to stop metahumans who were
under the control of the Starheart. At the same time, Mr. Terrific
searched for a way to weaken the Starheart's power. Jade used her
father's old lantern to make a brief connection with her father. The
insignia of the Black Lantern Corps was briefly shown, floating behind
her. When Jade went to stop her father, she found Kyle. He had been
sent by the Guardians of the Universe to kill her father.

An Entity of the White Lantern Corps instructed Jade to help her
brother, Obsidian, "balance the darkness" and save their friends.
When Jade tried to rescue Obsidian from the control of the Starheart,
Jade and Obsidian were fused together. This fusion made an entity which
was also controlled by the Starheart. Jade and Obsidian attacked the
Justice League and the Justice Society, until Jade was again contacted
by the White Light Entity. The White Light Entity separated Jade and
Obsidian. Obsidian tried to make the fusion occur again but Kyle
restrained him and removed him. Jade restored her father's Starheart and
was reunited with him. However, as a result of her fusion with Obsidian,
Jade was no longer able to be in close proximity to her brother without
risking further threat from the Starheart. After this, Jade remained
with the Justice League.


Powers and abilities

Jade has Starheart energy manipulation powers similar to those of her
father. However, unlike her father, her powers do not come from a ring
or a lantern, but are channeled through the star shaped birthmark on her
palm. As it is with all Green Lanterns, Jade can bring unlimited green
energy constructs to life. She can use the constructs in any way,
limited only by her will, imagination, and endurance. She uses the
constructs most often to create shields, to fly, to travel through outer
space and to run very quickly. Jade's power often manifests as green
fire. Jade is unable to affect any object made of wood.

Jade inherited from her mother the ability to affect plants. Jade can
cause accelerated growth of plants and manipulate the movement of most
plant life. This ability manifests later in her life and thus she is
less familiar with it.

Technically speaking, Jade is a mutant. She was born with green-hued
skin, dark green hair, green eyes and a star-shaped birthmark on her
palm. Her skin contains chlorophyll (the source of its green hue), and
she can photosynthesize sunlight as a plant does. Due to their shared
mystical connection with the Starheart, Jade can sense where her twin
brother and her father are. She once shared a telepathic connection with
her brother.

As a member of the Green Lantern Corps, Jade wields a power ring. Its
power is not from the Starheart but from an aspect of the emotional
spectrum. The power ring gives Jade abilities which are similar to her
natural powers. It requires twenty-four hours to be recharged by her
power battery. Jade's ring has a yellow impurity, which requires her to
face her fears and overcome them with green willpower. As a Black
Lantern, Jade wields a black power ring but as a reanimated corpse, she
is not in control of her body or powers.


Other versions

Kingdom Come

In Alex Ross' miniseries Kingdom Come, an older Jade has taken the
mantle of the Green Lantern. In the end notes of collectors' editions,
she is identified as Green Lantern VI. Jade's efforts save herself,
her father and others when the United Nations drops a nuclear bomb
during the climactic battle

Tangent Comics

In Tangent Comics, the Earth-9 version of Jade is an Asian woman with
the power to turn her tattoos into living dragons.

52

In the final issue of 52, a new Multiverse is revealed containing 52
parallel identical realities. One is designated "Earth-2". After Mister
Mind eats elements of this reality, it resembles the Pre-Crisis
Earth-Two. Although a character who is visually similar to the
Jennie-Lynn Hayden incarnation of Jade and JSA members are present, they
are not named in the panel in which they appear.

In November 2008, the authors disclosed that Earth-2's Jade is alive,
but her father is dead. Jade is a member of the Justice Society
Infinity, formed through a merger of the Justice Society of America and
Infinity, Inc.

Grant Morrison said this alternate universe is not the Pre-Crisis
Earth-Two.

Manhunter

In the final arc of Manhunter, which takes place in the future, a new
Jade appears who is the daughter of Obsidian. This version of Jade is an
Asian teenager named after her aunt. She has light-based powers and is
an active superhero.

Ame-Comi Girls

In the Ame-Comi universe, Jennifer is re-imagined as JADE YIFEI, a
teenager from Beijing, China. She is the daughter of a National People's
Congress official. Despite being blinded in an accident as a child, she
goes on become a well known mountain climber. During an attack upon her
family, she is chosen by a Green Lantern ring, which greatly enhances
her hearing. This allows her to "see" via a set of special headphones,
as well as granting her the ability to create energy constructs and
changing her skin color to green. Though she possesses the green skin of
her original counterpart, the Ame-Comi version of Jade uses a power ring
rather than an internal source of energy.


Nicki Jones

[The new Jade, Nicki Jones, is introduced. Art by Chris Batista.] In
52, week 29, a young woman named NICKI JONES was introduced as a
member of the new Lex Luthor-owned Infinity, Inc. under the super hero
name Jade. Jones is a vegetarian graphic arts student from the San
Francisco Art Institute. She possesses the ability to project glowing
vines from her fingertips. She is also able to fly, and use green energy
powers. Jones debuted at a Thanksgiving parade only to be attacked by
Obsidian, who accused her of trying to steal his sister's legacy.

In 52 week 40, the members of Infinity, Inc., with the exception of
Jones, Natasha Irons, and Jacob Colby, they battled Steel and the Teen
Titans and were arrested. Jones appeared again during week 50 in
World War III, with the remaining members of Infinity, Inc.

