THE JAGUAR is a superhero published by Archie Comics. He was created by
writer Robert Bernstein and artist John Rosenberger as part of Archie's
"Archie Adventure Series", before that line was camped up as part of
their Mighty Comics line. He would actually appear two years after The
Fly did.

The Jaguar is actually zoologist RALPH HARDY. While on a dig in Peru
(Hardy, like most Silver Age heroes, was a man of many interests and
talents including archeology), a giant serpent burst forth from the
ground and began terrorizing the area. While the others fled Hardy
followed a rare white jaguar into a ruined temple and found a series of
cave drawings depicting the ancient Incas battling the same monster as
well as a mystical "NUCLEON ENERGY BELT". The buckle of the belt had an
inscription: "He who loves the animal kingdom may wear this belt and be
transformed into a human jaguar." Hardy put on the belt and instantly
transformed into the Jaguar.

As the Jaguar he possessed, in addition to the expected feline
abilities, all the powers of the animal kingdom only a thousand times
more powerful (the oft-quoted magnified toughness of a rhinoceros' hide,
for example, gave him near Superman level invulnerability), plus he had
the Aquaman-style telepathic ability to mentally communicate with and
command all animals including those from alien worlds.

As the Jaguar, he wore a simple skintight scarlet bodysuit with a flared
black collar and the stylized suggestion of a feline face (just the
eyes, whiskers and open mouth) on the chest and jaguar pelt-patterned
boots and nucleon belt, the later with two small rocket packs on either
side which gave him the power of supersonic flight. The Jaguar wore no
mask and looked exactly like Ralph Hardy, except that Hardy had a
mustache and the Jaguar didn't.

In many ways, the Jaguar was a copy of the Fly: magic belt instead of
magic ring, powers of the animal kingdom rather than insect kingdom,
etc.

Unlike the Fly, however, the handsome Jaguar had many recurring romantic
interests, including the immortal feline sorceress CAT GIRL who had
command over the cat kingdom just as he ruled over the entire animal
kingdom (also known as the Sphinx, she originally had fought the Fly,
but it was quickly realized that she would make a more fitting foe for
the Jaguar), the green-skinned and white-haired undersea siren KREE-NAL,
and Hardy's secretary JILL ROSS who, like Pete Ross, secretly knew that
Hardy was her beloved hero the Jaguar and used that knowledge to help
him without him knowing it. Nor were these relationships static for in
later stories Jill left to study to become a nurse so that she could
better assist Hardy in the veterinary side of his work, and Cat Girl
lost her magic powers due to exposure to Strontium 90 radiation from
atomic testing, retaining only her telepathic mastery over cats as she
took on the new mortal identity of jet-set socialite LYDIA FELLIN whose
"family fortune" was actually the vast treasure trove that she had
gathered over the centuries.

The Jaguar appeared in 15 issues of The Adventures of the Jaguar, as
well as backup stories in several other Archie comics (Jughead Jones
Comic Digest 7; Laugh Comics 127, 130, 131, 133, 135, 140-142, 144;
Laugh Comics Digest 25, 27; Pep Comics 150, 152, 157, 159, 168), and
would show up in The Adventures of the Fly #23. When the "Archie
Adventure Series" line was canceled and camped up as Archie's Mighty
Comics line, The Jaguar only made brief appearances in Mighty
Crusaders #4 and 5. In #5, The Jaguar would team up with Mr. Justice
and Steel Sterling as the "Terrific Three".

The Jaguar would again appear as part of Archie's Red Circle Comics
revamp in the 1980s, as a founding member of the new Mighty Crusaders,
and get a backup series in The Fly (issues 4-9). In this incarnation
it was revealed that the source of the Jaguar's powers was the pre-human
god VARIGON, LORD OF THE ANIMALS, a towering golden-winged being with
the three heads of a bird, lion and bull who had created the magic belt
as a weapon to be worn by his mortal champion in his eternal battle
against the scaly green lizard-headed S'ITHH, LORD OF THE REPTILES who
wanted the dinosaurs to rule the Earth once more and that the first
person to have worn the belt in ancient times had been an Incan woman.
It's also later also revealed that Ralph is the brother of Rose Raymond,
the wife of fellow superhero, The Web.

The most recent appearances of the Ralph Hardy Jaguar have been in
cameos in Archie's Weird Mysteries #3 and 14 and a cover story
crossover appearance in Sabrina the Teenage Witch # 30.

A teenage female version of the Jaguar, written by William
Messner-Loebs, was used in ' Impact revamp of the Archie
superheroes. She was naive and good-hearted MARIA DEGUZMAN who came to
North America from Rio de Janeiro to study at ELM HARBOR UNIVERSITY when
to her surprise she inherited from her late aunt the werewolf-like
ability to transform into the large, muscular, barefoot and green-eyed
Jaguar. Unlike her male namesake, however, in this ferocious feline form
her powers were limited to superhuman strength and agility combined with
cat-like claws and senses. She eventually "married" the Impact version
of the Fly at the end of the Crucible mini-series.

In the aftermath of the continuity-altering Final Crisis,  once
again licensed the Red Circle heroes, this time choosing to bring them
directly into the  Universe. In March 2010, a new Jaguar is set to
appear in The Shield #5 and is apparently a Brazilian male who can
transform into a red tattoo-covered were-jaguar.

In New Crusaders, the role of the Jaguar was passed to Ralph Hardy's
young apprentice, orphan Yvette "Ivy" Velez. She was given the helmet of
Ai Apaec to become the new Jaguar.

