JASON TODD is a fictional character that appears in comic books
published by .

The character first appeared in Batman #357 (March 1983) and became
the second character to take up the ROBIN identity, sidekick to the
superhero Batman. Though initially popular, following a revamping of his
origin by Max Allan Collins, the character as written by Jim Starlin was
not well received by fans. For 1988's "Batman: A Death in the Family"
storyline,  held a telephone poll to determine whether or not
the character would die at the hands of the Joker, Batman's nemesis. He
was killed off by a margin of 72 votes (5,343 for, 5,271 against).
Subsequent Batman stories dealt with Batman's guilt over not having
been able to prevent Jason Todd's death. In 2005's "Under the Hood"
story arc, the character was resurrected, becoming the second character
to take up the RED HOOD alias and assuming a new role as an antihero who
resembles Batman in many ways, except with a willingness to use lethal
force and weapons.

In 2013, ComicsAlliance ranked Jason Todd as #23 on their list of the
"50 Sexiest Male Characters in Comics".


Publication history

By the time Len Wein took over as editor of ' Batman titles
in 1982, Dick Grayson had largely moved on to starring as the leader of
the young superhero team the Teen Titans in 's New Teen Titans
title. However, with the character no longer featured in Batman
comics, the disadvantages of telling Batman stories without the
character to act as a sounding board for the protagonist became
apparent. Jason Todd was created as Dick Grayson's replacement as
Robin but was almost a complete clone of the first Robin until Crisis on
Infinite Earths.The character debuted in Batman #357 (March 1983) and
made his second cameo appearance in Detective Comics #526 (May 1983),
but it wasn't until later that year when he would appear in costume as
Robin in Batman #366 (Dec 1983) when he showed up towards the end of
the story to help Batman fight the Joker.

Following the 1985 limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths,  took
the opportunity to reboot many of its properties. The character was
completely revamped and the new version of the character was not well
received by fans. Dennis O'Neil, who took over as Batman editor in 1986,
said, "They did hate him. I don't know if it was fan craziness—maybe
they saw him as usurping Dick Grayson's position. Some of the mail
response indicated that this was at least on some people's minds."

"A Death in the Family"

In 1988, Dennis O'Neil suggested that an audience might be attracted to
the comics by being offered the opportunity to influence the creative
process. Settling on the idea of telephone poll via a 1-900 number,
O'Neil had decided due to discussions with  president Jenette
Kahn that the poll should not be wasted on something insignificant.
O'Neil settled on using the poll to determine the fate of the second
Robin. O'Neil said, "The logical candidate was Jason because we had
reason to believe that he wasn't that popular anyway. It was a big
enough stunt that we couldn't do it with a minor character." Even
though Jason Todd was unpopular with readers, O'Neil could not decide
what to do with the character, so he opted to present the choice to the
readership.

The vote was set up in the four-part story "A Death in the Family" that
was published in Batman #426–429 in 1988. At the end of Batman #427,
Jason was beaten by the Joker and left to die in an explosion. The
inside back cover of the issue listed two 1-900 numbers that readers
could call to vote for the character's death or survival. Within the
36-hour period allotted for voting, the poll received 10,614 votes. The
verdict in favor of the character's death won by a slim 72-vote margin
of 5,343 votes to 5,271. The following issue, Batman #428, was
published featuring Todd's death. Years later, O'Neil would admit
hundreds of votes in the "Jason Dies" line came from a single person,
adding a large degree of uncertainty to the honesty of results regarding
a poll designed to determine the character's popularity. "I heard it was
one guy, who programmed his computer to dial the thumbs down number
every ninety seconds for eight hours, who made the difference", O'Neil
said in a Newsarama interview conducted alongside writer Judd Winick
during the "Under The Hood" arc. Based on O'Neil's information, that
figures out to 320 votes over eight hours from one person or roughly six
percent of the death line's total calls. O'Neil would later repeat the
claim with further specifics: "I heard it was a lawyer who was using a
MacIntosh and lived in California—I obviously don't have hard
information on this, but I heard someone out there programmed his
computer to dial it every couple of minutes, and since there was only
about 65 votes that made the difference, if that story is true, that
guy, that guy killed Jason Todd!"

[Interior art of Batman #428 (1988): "A Death in the Family". Art by
Jim Aparo.] Despite the poll results, O'Neil noted, "We did the deed,
and we got a blast of hate mail and a blast of negative commentary in
the press." A few comics creators voiced their displeasure at the
event. Writer/artist Frank Miller, who had worked on Batman: The Dark
Knight Returns and Batman: Year One, said, "To me the whole killing
of Robin thing was probably the ugliest thing I've seen in comics, and
the most cynical." However,  stood behind the outcome of the poll.
O'Neil was quoted on the back cover of A Death in the Family trade
paperback collecting the story with Todd's death as saying, "It would be
a really sleazy stunt to bring him back." O'Neil would later regret
his comment.

There was a degree of discontinuity between the Batman and Detective
Comics titles with regards to the portrayal of Jason. A great deal of
adventures occurred post-Crisis which fit with the circus acrobat era
and in some cases ran simultaneously in Detective as the street kid
origin was being laid out in Batman. This led to a blackout of almost
any Robin appearances in Detective. This became especially apparent
after his death. Eleven months passed between Jason's death in Batman
#428 and the first mention of his passing in Detective Comics #606.

In 1989, Denny O'Neil, Marv Wolfman and Pat Broderick would introduce
Tim Drake as the third Robin. Mindful of the poor reception Jason
received from readers, O'Neil arranged for a more nuanced introduction
in which Tim first introduced himself to Dick Grayson and impressed the
former Robin with his skills and was revealed to share a history with
Grayson. Batman himself would slowly grow to accept Tim as his new
partner, although the memory of Jason would continue to play a heavy
part in his behavior towards partners and how Batman trained Tim in the
months building up to his official appearance as Robin.

"Hush" and reintroduction

[Jason Todd as Red Hood, from Batman Annual #25. Art by Shane Davis.]
Prior to the release of Batman #617 (September 2003), a page of art
from the issue by artist Jim Lee circulated the Internet, apparently
revealing the mystery villain Hush, who was the focus of Lee and writer
Jeph Loeb's "Hush" storyline, as a resurrected Jason. The following
month's Batman #618 (October 2003) revealed that the appearance of
Todd was in fact a ruse by the villain Clayface under the direction of
the Riddler and Hush. Loeb explained, "I always liked Jason, liked the
idea that Batman had a Robin who died in the line of duty and how that
would motivate anyone to continue their quest. It would also be the most
recent, most painful thing he had to endure. That's why Hush played the
card—to get inside Batman's head... But 'Hush' wasn't about Jason—Jason
was a pawn to be moved around the table... If someone else wanted to
tell another Jason story or bring him back and we at least opened the
door, that's great!"

In 2005, writer Judd Winick began the Under the Hood storyline that
revolved around the mystery of the identity of the new Red Hood. The
character's identity was revealed as Jason Todd in Batman #638. Winick
explained that after his initial arc on the Batman title, he suggested
doing "something big" to his editors. Specifically, he wanted to bring
the character back from the dead. Winick said, "I was less interested in
the how and the why and the what of Jason Todd returning from the dead
than I am about what Jason's return will do to Batman. Now." The
explanation for the character's return was revealed in Batman Annual
#25 (2006). After a storyline in Nightwing as part of the One Year
Later event where Todd took the mantle of Nightwing for himself, the
character reappeared in his Red Hood persona as one of the focal
characters of 's year-long weekly Countdown series starting in May
2007.

"Battle for the Cowl"

In the Batman R.I.P._ follow-up storyline Batman: Battle for the
Cowl, Jason Todd is featured as a gun-wielding vigilante. Commenting on
the direction and utilization of Jason Todd in the storyline, writer and
artist Tony Daniel has stated that, from this point on, Jason is a "bona
fide" villain:

Todd battles the Batman Family one by one until he is defeated by Dick
Grayson taking up the mantle of Batman. However, before falling from a
train into a dark abyss, he gives an ominous warning that he will be
seen again.

The Outlaws

[Jason Todd as Red Hood, from Red Hood and the Outlaws #1; art by
Kenneth Rocafort.] On June 6, 2011, as part of ' line-wide
revamp initiative, it was announced Jason Todd will headline his own
title in the guise of the Red Hood. Todd acts as leader of the Outlaws,
a group of antiheroes that "have several different exciting characters
from the  Universe – some we've seen before and some we haven't,"
Batman Group Editor Mike Marts said. The group includes Roy Harper
and Starfire. Red Hood and the Outlaws debuted in September 2011,
written by Scott Lobdell and with art by Kenneth Rocafort. The
series has focused on Jason Todd's redemption, and introduced a
simplified version of his origin story as the Red Hood in Red Hood and
the Outlaws #0, a special prequel issue between #12 and #13.


Fictional character biography

Pre-Crisis on Infinite Earths

The initial version of Jason "Jay" Todd from before Crisis on Infinite
Earths had an origin that was virtually identical to the 1940 origin of
the original Robin (Dick Grayson). Originally, he is the son of
circus acrobats, Joseph Todd and Trina Todd, killed by a criminal
(Killer Croc) and is later adopted by Bruce Wayne. Distinguished by
strawberry blond hair, Todd is wearing various pieces of Dick Grayson's
old childhood disguises as costume to fight crime until Grayson presents
him with a Robin costume of his own. At that point, Todd dyes his hair
black, and in later stories blossoms under Batman's tutelage.

For a time Natalia Knight, the criminal also known as Nocturna, Mistress
of the Night is a stabilizing influence in his life; she becomes his
surrogate mother and even adopts the young Todd. Catwoman would be a
frequent guest star during this era as she wrestled with the role of
hero and as a love interest for Batman which led to clashes with the boy
feeling left-out.

In the Alan Moore epic Superman Annual #11, "For the Man Who Has
Everything", Batman and Todd join Wonder Woman at the Fortress of
Solitude to celebrate Superman's birthday. They arrive only to find
Superman incapacitated by a mysterious creature and Mongul there to
battle the heroes. Todd as Robin saves Wonder Woman, Superman, and
Batman from Mongul by unleashing Mongul's own hallucination-causing
creature on the tyrant himself.

Todd also tackled the drug problem in his school, hauling in the local
dealers who were muscled up with Two-Face. One of the more memorable
moments of this era occurred in Detective Comics #569 when Batman
forbade Jason from using "Holy!" puns.

Post-Crisis on Infinite Earths

Origin

Following the revamp due to Crisis on Infinite Earths, Jason Todd is
recast as a young street orphan who first encounters Batman while
attempting to steal the tires off the Dark Knight's Batmobile in Crime
Alley. The son of Willis Todd and Catherine Todd, Jason lives on the
East end of Gotham in the Park Row district called Crime Alley.
Catherine was a drug addict who died of an overdose some time before he
began living on the street. Willis was working as hired muscle for
Two-Face and had disappeared suspiciously following a botched
assignment. Bruce Wayne sees to it that Todd is placed in a school for
troubled youths which turns out to be Ma Gunn's School for Crime. Jason
earns the Robin mantle a short while later by helping Batman apprehend
the gang of thieves. However, Todd does not wear the Robin costume (an
improved version of the classic) until six months of training.
Batman notes that while Todd doesn't possess Dick Grayson's natural
athleticism & acrobatic skills, he can become a productive crimefighter
by channeling his rage. He also believes that if he doesn't help the
boy, Todd will eventually become part of the "criminal element".

In the revamp period, Todd is portrayed as the "rebel" Robin. He smokes,
swears, and fights authority. He is prone to defying Batman's orders,
sometimes to success (bringing in the Scarecrow singlehandedly) and
sometimes failure (botching a raid on a drug lab by jumping the gun too
soon). Todd also aided Batman while Gotham City was temporarily overrun
by Deacon Blackfire as shown in Batman: The Cult.

The most controversial moment prior to his death occurred in Batman
#424 when serial rapist Felipe Garzonas escapes prosecution due to his
father's diplomatic immunity. One of his victims, a girl named Gloria,
hangs herself amid the threat of a third rape from Felipe. Todd
discovers her hanging and makes a beeline for Felipe, ahead of Batman,
who arrived just in time to see Felipe take a 22 story fall to his
death, with Todd as Robin at the edge of the balcony. Todd maintains "I
guess I spooked him. He slipped." This highlights an earlier exchange in
Batman #422 where he uses excessive force on a pimp about to slash one
of his working girls and Todd asks Batman if it "would've been such a
big loss if I had (killed him)?". Whether Todd pushed the rapist from
the roof is never known.

In Batman #425, the Dynamic Duo is challenged by Felipe's father when
he kidnaps Commissioner Gordon in retaliation for his son's death.
Batman is instructed to meet the kidnappers at a city junkyard and to
bring Robin. Batman does not wish to involve Todd and keeps this
information from him. However, Robin senses something is wrong and hides
in the Batmobile's trunk as Batman heads to the junkyard. There, Batman
is unable to reach Gordon, surrounded by Garzonas' men, and Todd
intervenes, saving Batman from a close call. Machine gunfire breaks out
and Gordon is wounded in the arm. All of the henchmen die, and Garzonas
is finally crushed by a pile of junk cars. Batman speaks to Todd of
consequences to actions while the boy stares at the dead and the wounded
Gordon for a moment before walking off.

Death

In 1988's "A Death in the Family" storyline, Jason Todd discovers that
Catherine Todd was not his biological mother, and runs away to find the
woman who gave birth to him. After following a number of leads,
including an Israeli Mossad agent and Shiva Woo-San, Todd finally tracks
his mother Sheila to Ethiopia, where she works as an aid worker. While
Todd is overjoyed to be reunited with his real mother, he soon discovers
that she is being blackmailed by the Joker using her to provide him with
medical supplies. Sheila herself has been embezzling from the aid agency
and as part of the cover-up, she hands her own son, having arrived as
Robin, over to Joker. Joker beats the boy brutally with a crowbar, and
then leaves him and Sheila in the warehouse with a time bomb. Sheila and
Jason try desperately to get out of the warehouse but are still inside
as the bomb goes off. Batman arrives too late to save them, and finds
Jason's lifeless body in the rubble. Sheila lives just long enough to
tell Batman that Jason died trying to protect her. The bodies are taken
back to Gotham City for burial. Todd's death haunts Batman, and he
considers it his greatest failure. He keeps the second Robin's uniform
on display in the Batcave as a reminder. The murder of Todd, along with
the shooting (and paralysis) of Barbara Gordon in Batman: The Killing
Joke, intensifies Batman's obsession with Joker.

Return from the Grave

[Interior art of Batman #617 (2003). The apparent return of Jason
Todd. Art by Jim Lee.] Years later, while trying to discover the
identity of a mysterious figure plotting against him, Batman discovers
that Tim Drake (as Robin) has been kidnapped. When he confronts the
kidnapper, he discovers, much to his surprise, that the kidnapper is
apparently an adult Todd, standing at his own desecrated grave site.
Batman subdues this mystery "Jason" and discovers that it is only
Clayface impersonating Todd, concluding that "Jason's" greater physical
age was to hide the flaws in Clayface's impersonation by allowing him to
partially mimic Nightwing's combat skills; duplicating Drake's movements
would not work as his movements were too familiar, but Batman's less
regular contact with Nightwing would make him unsure. However, Todd's
actual body is missing from its grave.

It is later revealed that he had indeed died at the hands of the Joker.
However, when Superboy-Prime alters reality from the paradise dimension
in which he is trapped—his punches against the barrier keeping him from
the rest of the universe causing temporal ripples—Jason Todd is restored
to life, breaks out of his coffin, and is eventually hospitalized;
having wandered so far from his grave before his discovery, no
connection was ever drawn between the two events, with groundskeepers
covering up the disturbed grave rather than report it, and Batman's
security systems was only meant for someone from outside the grave. Todd
never turns up on any missing persons reports—as he was never
'missing'—nor can he be identified since no prints are on file for him.
After spending a year in a coma and subsequently another year as an
amnesiac vagrant after escaping the hospital, he is taken by Talia al
Ghul after a small-time crook recognizes him as Robin due to his combat
skills on the street.

Talia took Todd in out of her love for Batman, while Ra's al Ghul was
interested in the secret behind his resurrection. The League of
Assassins tracked and eliminated everyone in Gotham who knew of Todd's
resurrection to prevent Batman from finding out. They also interrogated
Joker's henchmen who were with him during Todd's murder, in hopes to
find out how the boy could have survived. Talia later restored
Todd's health and memory by immersing him in a Lazarus Pit in which her
father was also bathing and helped him escape the House of al Ghul. It
is suggested by Ra's that the power of the pit resulted in Todd's mental
instability. Ra's refers to Todd as a "curse" and a "pestilence"
unleashed on the planet, saying that madness may affect him in "hours,
months, or decades".

Using the money from Talia and infuriated by her statement that he
"remains unavenged", Todd paid a group of mercenaries to help him return
to Gotham. Upon arriving, he enacts a plan to get revenge on Batman due
to Todd convinced the Dark Knight deserves to die for failing to avenge
his death.

The Lost Days

Jason Todd creates a false arms trafficking of advance military arsenal,
knowing that Batman would respond. This provides Jason an opportunity to
plant a bomb beneath the Batmobile while Batman is on a stakeout for the
arms deal. Batman enters the car and is at Jason's mercy, detonator in
hand. However, Todd realizes that his former mentor would never know
about his return nor the identity of his killer. Todd decides to kill
Batman directly by traveling across the globe in search of a similar,
yet deadlier type of training as Bruce Wayne received to prepare for
that day. For years, Todd learns various skills from various
masters, assassins, mercenaries, and aviators around the globe,
including guns, poisons and antitoxins, martial arts, acrobatics, and
bomb-making. Upon learning that the man training him in lethal combat is
also the leader of a child sex slave ring, Jason frees the latest
shipment of children and takes them to a local embassy, then returns to
the training compound and poisons his new mentor for his crimes. Upon
being questioned by Talia al Ghul, Todd says it was not murder but
rather that he "...put down a reptile." Jason has since repeated the
same pattern of killing his teachers when finding them guilty after he
has finished with his training.

During his journey, Jason discovers his Robin replacement was Timothy
"Tim" Drake, which further torments him. He also learns that the man
teaching him bomb-making is involved in a Russian mafia-backed deal
meant to push the resources of British law enforcement away from mob
crime and onto Islamic extremist terrorism with a framed bombing plot.
Todd manages to hunt down the gang and safely detonate the bombs.
Ironically, the only surviving member of the gang offers Jason the
possibility of a large government payday in exchange for his life,
because he knows where a very wanted man is. That wanted man turns out
to be the Joker.

After learning of the Joker's arms deal in Los Angeles for another
terrorism plot, Jason begins to stalk the villain as a masked assassin.
After successfully capturing Joker (who fails to recognize him), Jason
contemplates burning his killer alive after dousing with gasoline.
However, Jason realizes that he does not simply want Joker to die, but
desires to punish the villain with Batman. Jason spares Joker and
decides to wait for the right opportunity. Jason also admits to Talia
that he has already deduced that the reason she finances his training is
to stall him from killing Batman, but he has no desire to kill his
former mentor anymore. Talia then gives Todd the idea to be the Batman
that Gotham needs. She also hires the same carpenters who built Jason's
casket and had them build a replica of it (the original was destroyed
when Jason emerged from it). Todd enters into a pact with Hush and the
Riddler. He confirms to Hush that Riddler is correct that Bruce Wayne is
Batman. As Hush, Riddler and Jason collaborate, Jason initially
confronts Batman at his own gravesite. Jason then switches places with
Clayface in order to observe Batman from afar. When Batman expresses no
remorse for sparing Joker's life after the second Robin was killed, Todd
is further angered and takes up his murderer's original mantle. After
she initiated a takeover of Kord Industries for him, Talia gives Jason a
flame dagger (a replica of the one Ra's al Ghul often carried) and a red
helmet as gifts, and they become his signature weapon and mask.

Red Hood

Shortly after the events of "War Games" and just before "War Crimes",
Jason Todd reappears in Gotham City as the Red Hood. He hijacks a
shipment of Kryptonite from Black Mask, and in the midst of a battle
with Batman, Nightwing and Mr. Freeze, Red Hood gives them the
Kryptonite back, and tells them he has gotten what he truly wanted: a
"lay of the land". Shortly afterward, Red Hood finds the Joker (driven
out of Gotham by Hush) and beats him with a crowbar just as Joker had
beaten Jason. Despite the violence of the beating, Jason spares Joker,
intending to use him later against Batman.

Red Hood assumes control over several gangs in Gotham City and starts a
one-man war against Black Mask's criminal empire. Overall, he strives to
take over Gotham's gangs, control their activities, and to kill Joker in
revenge for his own death. In his new role as Gotham's most powerful
crime lord, he repeatedly comes to blows with Batman and several of his
allies. A Robin mask is found in the Batmobile, which never belonged to
Dick or Tim, but is of the style that Todd wore as Robin, suggesting
that he'd been stalking Batman. After their encounter in the
cemetery, Batman becomes obsessed with the possibility of resurrection
from the dead, and seeks advice from allies such as Superman and Green
Arrow, both of whom have died and returned to life. Around this time,
Batman discovers that the empty coffin buried at Jason's gravesite is a
replica of what he bought. Nevertheless, Batman keeps Jason's Robin
costume in its memorial display case in the Batcave; when Alfred
Pennyworth asks if he wants the costume removed, Batman sadly replies
that the return of Todd "doesn't change anything at all".

Acting on his obsession with Tim Drake, Todd breaks into Titans Tower to
confront the third Robin, thus revealing the truth of their first
encounter at the cemetery to his successor. Wearing an altered version
of his own Robin costume, Todd quickly immobilizes the other Teen Titans
and strikes Drake down in the Tower's Hall of Fallen Titans. Furious
that no memorial statue was made for him (despite his short tenure as a
Titan), he demands that Drake tell him if he is really as good as Todd
has been told. Drake says "Yes" and passes out. As he leaves, he tears
the 'R' emblem from Drake's chest, though later admitting that Drake has
talent. Todd is also left wondering if perhaps he would have been a
better Robin and better person had he a life like Drake's and friends
like the Titans.

Todd eventually kidnaps and holds Joker hostage, luring Batman to Crime
Alley, the site of their first meeting. Despite their now-antagonistic
relationship, Batman desperately wants to help Todd, and intends to
atone for his own failures. Todd asks Batman why he has not avenged his
death by killing Joker, a psychopath that has murdered countless people
and crippled one of their best friends, and simply "doing it because he
took me away from you". Batman then admits that he has often fantasized
about taking the Joker somewhere private to torture for weeks before
finally killing the maniac, but refuses to go to that place. Todd offers
Batman an ultimatum: he will kill Joker unless Batman kills Todd first.
Holding Joker at gunpoint, he throws a pistol to Batman and begins to
count to three while standing behind Joker, leaving Batman with only a
headshot if he wants to stop Todd pulling the trigger. At the last
moment, Batman throws a batarang at Todd, which hits his hand and causes
him to drop his gun. Joker takes advantage of the situation, detonating
nearby explosives that engulf the platform and send them plunging into
the bay.

Nightwing

Jason Todd resurfaces following the "One Year Later" period, patrolling
the streets of New York City as a murderous version of Nightwing.
However, Jason shows no intention of giving up the Nightwing persona
when confronted by Dick Grayson, and continues to taunt his predecessor
by wearing the costume and suggesting that the two become a
crime-fighting team. Not long after the two Nightwings meet up, Todd is
captured and imprisoned by local mobsters Barry and Buddy Pierce.
Grayson reluctantly rescues him, and the two join forces to defeat the
Pierce Brothers. Shortly afterward, Todd leaves New York City and the
Nightwing mantle to Grayson, along with a telegram telling Grayson he
has returned to normal and still considers himself a gift from
Batman.

Red Hood again

Jason Todd resumes his persona as the Red Hood and appears in several
issues of "Green Arrow" alongside Brick as part of a gun-running
organization, which brings Batman to Star City. Jason's true motives are
shown in the third part as he kidnaps Mia Dearden in an effort to
dissolve her partnership with Green Arrow, feeling that they are kindred
spirits, cast down by society and at odds with their mentors. The two
fight while Todd discusses the insanity of heroes for placing child
sidekicks in danger. Mia is deeply troubled by the discussion, but
ultimately decides to remain with Green Arrow.

At the start of Countdown, Todd rescues a woman from Duela Dent — the
Joker's daughter. After a Monitor shoots and kills Duela, he
attempts to kill Jason, but is stopped by a second Monitor. This second
Monitor apologizes to Jason before they both disappear, leaving Jason
alone with Duela's body. Later, at Duela's funeral, Jason hides until
all of the Teen Titans have left except Donna Troy. Jason tells her what
happened the night of Duela's death, and about the dueling Monitors. He
knows that both he and Donna Troy have come back from the dead, even
already deducing that his resurrection has something do with Alexander
Luthor, Jr.'s plans during Infinite Crisis, and wonders which of them
is next on the Monitor's hit list. The two are then attacked by the
Forerunner, but before she can kill them, the apologetic Monitor stops
her, and recruits Jason and Donna for a mission to the Palmerverse, a
section of the Nanoverse discovered by Ray Palmer, in an attempt to find
Palmer. During the trip, Jason takes it upon himself to name the Monitor
"Bob". Jason seems to have a romantic interest in Donna, and is shown to
be visibly disgruntled when her old boyfriend Kyle Rayner joins their
group as they take their tour to the 52 Earths which comprise the
Multiverse.

Red Robin

[Jason Todd in the Red Robin costume.] A teaser image released to
promote Countdown showed a figure resembling Red Robin among assembled
heroes in poses symbolic of their roles in the series. After a series of
contradictory statements about this figure, executive editor Dan DiDio
firmly stated in the July 2007  Nation column that the figure is Jason
Todd. The Red Robin costume, originally designed by Alex Ross for the
1996 Kingdom Come limited series and worn by the Earth-22 Dick
Grayson, is seen in Countdown to Final Crisis #16 in the Earth-51
Batman's base of operations; it is revealed that Earth-51 became the
peaceful world it is because the Batman of this Earth killed all the
supervillains after his Jason was killed by the Joker. In issue #14,
Jason dons the Red Robin suit—described by Earth-51's Batman as
something he was going to give Todd's counterpart when he was older—and
goes into battle alongside Earth-51 Batman. During a battle with a group
of Monarch's soldiers, Earth-51 Batman is killed by the Ultraman of
Earth-3, deeply affecting Jason. In his grief, Todd kills an alternate
version of the Joker, also involved in Batman's killing, who then mocks
his loss, vacating alongside Donna, Ray and Kyle to the planet Apokolips
before Earth-51's destruction.

After the group is sent back to Earth, Todd leaves the group and returns
to his crimefighting ways. When the Morticoccus virus is released from
Karate Kid's body, he is forcibly brought back to the group by Kyle,
much to his dismay. When the Challengers return to New Earth, Todd
disposes of his Red Robin costume and abandons the rest of the group,
though they go on to declare to the Monitors that they are now the
monitors of the Monitors. Todd and Drake are confronted by another Red
Robin in Robin #177, whose identity is initially a mystery but later
turns out to be Ulysses Armstrong. Due to a combination of Red Robin's
involvement and a gun-toting gang member, Todd was shot in the leg and
arrested by police. Upon the resolution of the gang war in Gotham, Drake
under a pseudonym visited Todd in prison to give him the Justice League
access code to release himself from prison. Todd is booked under a
pseudonym (John Doe), due to there being no identifiable prints on file
for any member of the main bat heroes as well as Jason is still legally
dead. Following his escape, Todd continues on the mend, and is
summoned by Tim Drake to come to the Batcave, where Batman has left a
Last Will and Testament statement for him. After hearing the statement
in private, Todd prepares to leave, not revealing what he was told,
although he does pause before his old costume and the tattered remains
of Batman's, he is clearly sad.

Batman

Jason Todd reappeared in the "Battle for the Cowl" series. Dressed in a
version of a Batman costume, Todd is also living/operating out of an
abandoned Gotham subway system. His inner monologue reveals that he had
always wanted to eventually replace Batman, and thinks it was a bad idea
for Batman to become a public figure, rather than an urban legend.

After stabbing Tim Drake in the chest with a batarang, he and Dick
Grayson battle down in the subway. Nightwing still wants to save
Todd, but Todd refuses the offer, and instead allows himself to fall off
a speeding subway into the Gotham River, while stating they would see
each other again soon. This allowed Grayson to officially take up the
mantle of Batman.

It is later revealed in Battle for the Cowl that Bruce Wayne's last
words to Jason were of regret at how he had obviously overlooked the
young man's deep emotional problems. He thought he could do what could
never be done for him and 'make him whole'. His message goes on to plead
that Todd get psychiatric help, a notion that the latter rejects. It is
suggested by Dick Grayson that Todd was infuriated by Wayne's last
words, a reaction that led him to becoming monstrous, murdering Batman
in that same arc. Plus, it aggravated his hatred towards the Bat-family,
as he repeatedly attempts to kill members of it.

Red Hood and Scarlet

In the second story arc of Batman and Robin by Grant Morrison and
Philip Tan, Jason Todd retakes the Red Hood mantle after losing his bid
to become the new Batman. With the goal of making the very concept of
Batman obsolete, he puts a lot of effort into public relations: he
drastically alters his Red Hood costume to look more like a traditional
superhero outfit, recruits his own sidekick Scarlet. In their war on
crime, Red Hood and Scarlet freely kill criminals, villains, and anyone
who gets in their way, even the police. He leaves behind a calling card
which states "let the punishment fit the crime." He describes his
vendetta against Grayson as "the revenge of one crazy man in a mask on
another crazy man in a mask."

Todd has reappeared with red hair, claiming that he is a natural
red-head and that Bruce Wayne had him dye his hair black in order to
look like Dick Grayson (as in his pre-Crisis origins). He also claims
the white streak of hair that he got is from being resurrected in the
Lazarus Pit though the white streak disappears again. In the issue,
Todd is characterized as increasingly unstable and his idea of
"finishing off" Batman and Robin now consists of stripping them down to
their underwear and exposing their identities via webcam activated by a
phone poll [a nod by Morrison to his own death poll]. A fight between
Batman, Robin, and the Flamingo- a foreign hitman hired by a Mexican
carlet after Red Hood killed their operative in Gotham- ends with Jason
burying Flamingo in debris with a bulldozer. Flamingo is assumed dead,
although Commissioner Gordon reports that his body can't be recovered
from beneath the rubble.

Grayson offers to rehabilitate Todd who, in a moment of clarity, tells
Grayson it's too late for him, and how he tried to be what Batman
wanted, "but this world...this dirty, twisted, cruel and ugly dungheap
had...other plans for me." He then proceeds to fall back into his hero
persona, ranting how he did what Batman never did. He "...defeated his
archenemy." Todd is arrested by Gordon who informs him that the reason
he has always worked with Batman is that Batman never violates the law
"where it counts". As Gordon leads him away, Todd tauntingly asks
Grayson why he hasn't put Wayne's corpse into a Lazarus Pit to bring him
back, citing his own resurrection from its bath. Scarlet flees Gotham,
her mask finally falling from her face as she exits the city limits.

Jason files an appeal to be moved from Arkham Asylum where he's been
held for observation for the last several months. Bruce Wayne as Batman
visits him there to inform Jason he's in Arkham for his own protection.
Jason points out he's passed all the psychological tests repeatedly and
there is no reason to keep him in what he calls Batman's "kennel of
freaks". Jason is transferred to a Gotham prison and upon his arrival,
the suicide rate spikes amongst top incarcerated crime figures there.
Several homicides occur due to many botched attempts on Jason's life by
inmates with a grudge against Red Hood's tactics. Jason escalates things
further by poisoning the cafeteria, killing 82 and sickening 100 more
inmates. He is immediately transferred back to Arkham but is broken out
of the paddy wagon by a group of mercenaries. The mercs reveal they
are under orders to bring Jason to the person that hired them and that
he is in no danger. Jason breaks free and fights them off all the same
as Batman and Robin arrive. Once the hired guns are subdued they reveal
their employer has captured Scarlet, Jason's former sidekick. Dick,
Damian, and Jason go to one of the Red Hood's weapon caches where he
assembles a composite costume made from his biker and "superhero" Red
Hood attire. The three intend to rescue Scarlet. After Batman and
Robin defeat the mercs, Red Hood rescues Scarlet and escapes using the
helicopter. Batman and Robin attempt to chase him, but Red Hood tells
them that he planted bombs over Gotham City months ago. Scarlet desires
to stay with Red Hood as his partner. Red Hood and Scarlet head towards
an unknown destination.

The New 52

Origin

Jason's new origin is revealed in a special zero issue, which changes
the manner in which Batman first met Todd (stealing medicine from Leslie
Thompkins, after she had treated him from a brutal beating). The back-up
introduces a massive retcon in which the Joker is responsible for
orchestrating the major moments of Todd's life such as his father's
imprisonment and death, his mother's overdose, his introduction to
Thompkins and his adoption of the Robin identity. Considering the Joker
is the one narrating this segment, it is open to debate whether he is
telling the truth or not. Though only lightly touched on, his
resurrection is also simplified: he is resurrected after he is placed
into the Lazarus Pit by Talia al Ghul.

The Outlaws

Following the events of the "Flashpoint" storyline, the  universe was
relaunched, with Red Hood becoming the leader of the Outlaws in their
own series, part of the New 52 line of comics. The team also includes
Starfire and Roy Harper. Instead of being trained by various men after
his return from the dead, Jason Todd was trained by an order of warriors
known as the All Caste. He was a part of the order for an unknown
amount of time before he was exiled, partly of his own will. After
his exile, he became Red Hood and came to be odds with Dick Grayson,
Starfire's ex-lover and his Robin predecessor. He soon tires of Gotham
and leaves, gathering the group together; after breaking out Roy from a
Middle Eastern prison, he brings Roy up to speed on things. The two
start on very friendly terms. Roy and Starfire are in a sexual
relationship. However, Starfire makes it clear to Roy that it is only
physical, with no emotional ties. Essence, a fellow exiled member of the
All Caste whom Jason knows, appears to him, but is invisible to others.
She sets Jason on a mission to hunt down a group known as "The
Untitled", telling him of people missing organs before death without any
sign of removal, which is their calling card. To top it off, Essence
shows that the order of the All Caste, the people most qualified to
handle the situation, have been slaughtered, leaving her and Jason as
the only known survivors. After finding out he's no longer the
killer he once was, Jason brings his group to the All Caste
headquarters, the Hundred Acres of All, where they discover the bodies
are returning to life as zombies. Jason is forced to destroy the bodies
of his teachers and friends. Afterwards, he pays his respects, swearing
vengeance for them. He is led on a wild goose chase across the
globe. Eventually, he comes across an Untitled, who was in hiding, who
tells him that they were set up, but still fights him. Jason kills the
creature, strengthening his resolve.

Todd has also been revealed to be a member of Batman, Incorporated,
initially operating under the name of Wingman, an agent based in Europe.
Wingman temporary allies himself with Damian Wayne, who is using the
name "Redbird" at the time. Batman, Inc is at war with an organisation
named Leviathan, headed by Talia al Ghul, Damian's mother and the woman
responsible for reviving Jason, but in the present she seeks to destroy
Batman and has put a bounty on their son's head. Alfred Pennyworth
refers to Jason as wanting "to be redeemed" through his membership.
Later, however, the Wingman ruse is exposed and Todd returns to being
Red Hood. While he recalls his days as Wingman as a failure, Bruce Wayne
is nevertheless proud of him. Following the events of Death of the
Family, Bruce and Alfred care for a sick Jason in the Manor,
culminating in a warm embrace between Jason and his father figure as he
regains consciousness, suggesting that their animosity might finally be
put to rest. After Jason recovers and in the wake of Damian's death,
Batman partners with Jason for the first time since Jason's days as
Robin. Batman brings Jason on a mission in Ethiopia to punish some of
Damian's other would-be assassins, and while there he also takes him to
the place of his death in the hopes Jason can provide insights into his
resurrection so that he might apply the method to Damian. Jason is hurt
by Batman's manipulation, and the two share harsh words and exchange
blows, shattering their newfound relationship. Later however, the
pair come together, united by the ties of family. Jason teams up with
Batman, Batgirl, Cyborg and Red Robin to rescue Damian's body from
Apokolips. They are successful, and Damian is resurrected, sharing a
warm reunion with Jason and the family.

Following the traumas of Death of the Family, Damian's death and his
betrayal by Batman, Jason returns to the All-Castle and has his memories
wiped so that he may be at peace. He is 'rescued' by Starfire and
Arsenal, but does not regain his memories. He subsequently learns of
his history from Starfire's computer, which states Red Hood has made 83
confirmed kills. Jason refuses to believe from Starfire and Arsenal that
he had been on a path towards redemption, and abandons his
teammates.

Red Hood/Arsenal

Following the cancellation of Red Hood and the Outlaws, a new series
starring Red Hood teaming up with Arsenal as heroes for hire began
entitled Red Hood/Arsenal.


Skills and abilities

To become Robin, Jason Todd was trained by Bruce Wayne, just as Dick
Grayson was. Batman instructed him in acrobatics, detective work,
marksmanship and martial arts. After his return, he expands on his
training by learning from people of the same caliber as those who
trained his ex-mentor Batman.

Through Talia al Ghul's access to Kord Industries, as well as
being LexCorp's former CEO, Jason has access to high-level civilian and
military-grade weaponry including firearms such as pistols, machine
guns, shotguns, etc. He also has access to explosives, rocket launchers,
and advanced computer equipment and gadgetry. However, his dagger (which
resembles a kris and is a replica of one of Ra's al Ghul's knives) still
remains as his preferred weapon of choice for hand-to-hand combat. He
also has some lethally sharpened blades based on Batman's batarang
designs as throwing weapons; unlike Batman's Batarangs, they cannot
explode, or do any fancy tricks. Although Jason does not possess the
wealth of Bruce Wayne, his arsenal is nearly on a par with Batman's
technology. Jason is not afraid to kill, making him a ruthless antihero.

Having been trained by Batman in investigation, Todd is a skilled
detective. During the Under the Hood arc, he was able to locate the
Joker while the Clown Prince of Crime was in hiding after suffering a
brutal beating from Hush. Todd deduced his own resurrection was related
to Alexander Luthor, Jr.'s plots before his death in the beginning of
the Countdown storyline.


Alternative versions

The Dark Knight Returns

Batman: The Dark Knight Returns, which was published before "A Death
in the Family", references Jason Todd. In DKR, Jason Todd is implied to
have died in the line of duty, although the exact details are not given.
The Joker is not stated to have been responsible. It is implied that
Todd's death was a contributing factor to Batman's retirement. When
Batman allows Carrie Kelley to assume the mantle of Robin, Alfred
Pennyworth objects, citing Todd as a reason. Batman responds by stating
"Jason was a good soldier. He honored me. But the war goes on."

The details of Jason's death will be revealed in the comic book one-shot
Dark Knight Returns: The Last Crusade,_ by the first series' author
Frank Miller with Brian Azzarello, and art by John Romita, Jr. Romita
reveals that the Joker, like "A Death in the Family" story arc, will
play an important role in Jason Todd's demise in Miller's Dark Knight
Universe. It is scheduled to be released on February 17, 2016.

Earth-Two concept

In an interview for the Infinite Crisis harover, Jeanine Schaefer
states that Geoff Johns had planned to reveal the second Red Hood as the
Jason Todd of the Earth-Two universe. Said Schaefer:

Flashpoint

An alternate version of Jason appears in the Flashpoint timeline,
where, among other changes, Bruce Wayne was killed as a child and thus
never became Batman. Here Jason is portrayed as a former drug-addict and
follower of Brother Blood who eventually turned his life around and
became a priest. He still died, but was eventually resurrected and
recovered from it physically and mentally.

A World Without Young Justice

In this alternate time line, there appeared a version of Jason. He is
black haired circus kid with criminal acrobats as parents (Willis and
Catherine Todd) who worked for Killer Croc. He is killed during this
story line by his ex-girlfriend (an alternate version of Empress) on
behalf of his step mother Catherine.

Amalgam

In the Amalgam Universe, Jason Todd became Deathlok.

Batman: Arkham Knight

[The Arkham Knight on the cover of Batman: Arkham Knight #1 (February
2015). Pencils by Dan Panosian.]

Jason Todd was featured in the tie-in comics. Sometime after the events
of Batman: Arkham Origins, Jason Todd, after Dick Grayson decided to
make an identity of his own, is selected by Batman to be the second
Robin. After an unknown amount of time, Todd is captured by Joker, who
sent Batman a video of his murder of Todd while, in reality, Todd was
alive and tortured by the Joker for over a year in an abandoned wing in
Arkham Asylum. The incident occurred when Todd is driven into a rage
over discovering that Joker has bombed a kindergarten, murdering dozens
of young children. Todd pursued Joker alone and fell into a trap the
same evening. Shown in flashback scenes in the game, Joker breaks Todd
mentally, including showing him a photo of Batman and the new Robin and
telling Todd that Batman had already replaced him. Joker then claims
that Todd now belongs to him and he is now the Joker's new sidekick and
not Batman's. Joker is shown branding the letter 'J' on Todd's face.
During his 'breaking', he even comes close to revealing Batman's true
identity before he is seemingly shot in the head and killed by the
Joker. However, it is revealed Joker lied about shooting Todd, and as a
result of the Joker's torture, Todd began to hold immense hatred towards
Batman and began to fortify the means for his revenge. Joker himself—or
at least, a hallucination of Joker imagined by Batman—believes that the
reason Todd never returned to "Bat-daddy" was shame. In interview tapes
unlocked in the game, it's learned that the torture episodes were a
"success" and Todd's perception of Batman has radically been altered,
with him believing that Batman "is not about saving the innocent, he's
about punishing the guilty" and that "when he has to make a choice
between you, and the mission? He'll choose the mission. Every time."

Through unknown means, the Arkham Knight was able to monitor the actions
of Batman and everyone else involved in the Arkham City incident.
After Joker's death, the Arkham Knight witnessed a brief encounter
between Batman and the new Electrocutioner which resulted in the latter
being quickly defeated. Afterwards, he executed the defeated criminal
with a shotgun blast to the head, while explaining that men like
Electrocutioner will come to believe that him and Batman are on the same
side. Todd later monitored Batman, as the Caped Crusader went to the
abandoned Arkham Asylum to find an override code for bombs the Joker had
placed in all of Arkham City's walls prior to his death. He knew that
the Joker's threat was merely a ploy to kill Batman, and that all of the
explosives had actually been moved to the old Arkham Asylum. Todd
attempted desperately to open the door to the room where Batman was and
all of the explosives were concentrated in, claiming that he wanted to
kill the Dark Knight, albeit at his own time. Despite his effort, he was
unable to open the door and was caught in the explosion. He apparently
tanked the explosion, as seen by his steaming shoulder and chest plate,
and scavenged through the rubble of the asylum in search for Batman.
Instead of Batman, he found a scrapbook titled "My Dieary" with a ripped
drawing of the Joker beneath, afterwards claiming. "The night's not a
complete loss".

Later, Jason Todd located two Joker thugs, who kidnapped and locked a
family in the truck of a car, and attacked them. One of the thugs begged
him to stop, but the Arkham Knight tore out the pages of the "My Dieary"
book and shoved them in the thug's mouth, before setting them both on
fire, leaving the family to believe the Arkham Knight was a hero.

Ever since the death of the new Electrocutioner, some members of the
GCPD came to believe that Batman was "finally getting serious about
these lowlifes". A few hours after Batman apprehended Tweedledum,
Tweedledee, and their newest member Tweedledie, the Arkham Knight
executed all three of them in the Gotham Central Holding Facility with a
shotgun blast to each of their heads, just as he did to the
Electrocutioner.

Sometime after Bane escaped from Gotham Stone Ridge Penitentiary, Batman
attempted to stop the villain once and for all, but instead found
himself at Bane's mercy. Bane would've succeeded in breaking Batman's
back, but Poison Ivy intervened, claiming that Batman wasn't his to kill
and simply put the Caped Crusader to sleep with her pheromone gas.
During the struggle between the two villains, Jason pulled Batman to
safety and instead of killing him while he was unconscious, he keyed in
a new signal in Batman's cryptographic sequencer in order to lead him
where Jason wants him to. Once Batman regained consciousness, he
attempted once again to stop Bane and Poison Ivy, only to fall right
into the Arkham Knight's trap, where he sprayed explosive gel on the
ground they were all standing on and blew a bat-shaped hole that sent
Batman, Bane, and Poison Ivy into the sewers below the former Arkham
City. In the aftermath of Batman's battle with Bane and his followers in
the bowels of Arkham City, Jason found a half dead Bane under the rubble
and informed him he should stay alive because he "won't want to miss
what's next".

Jason later continued to watch Bruce, as well as Commissioner Gordon,
Tim, and Barbara, as they were discussing their plans for Jim to run for
mayor. The next morning, Bruce left Wayne Manor when the Arkham Knight
forced the gardener, Chauncey to give him his keys and told him to never
come back to the estate. Jason then placed a hidden camera in the back
of Chauncey's work trailer, so he can monitor the mansion from his
hideout on the lower west side of Gotham.

While practice fighting on a Batman dummy, Jason finally spotted Alfred
on the monitor outside of the mansion and decided to follow him and
Nightwing to see if it will lead him to Batman. Later when Nightwing was
riding his nightcycle to meet with Batman, Jason took out one of his
tires with a crossbow, causing Dick to crash.

Before Dick regained consciousness, Jason stole his nightcycle (just as
he did with the first one in Batman: Arkham Knight-Genesis) and rode it
back to his hideout and than began watching Batman's battle with the
Metamorph on the news. Later, Jason began loading both the nightcycle's
internal memory and schematics, as well as the Batmobile's logic array
into the newly built cobra tank and took it for a ride around the block,
while counting how many months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, and seconds
have gone by since the Arkham City incident.

While Batman was fighting the seven Solomon Grundys built by the
Calendar Man, Jason flew out to Central America and told Deathstroke to
keep an eye out for Batman's return. Once Jason arrived at the remote
mountains of Valle de las Guerras, he rode the nightcycle into the
militia's fortress to inspect their preparation for Gotham's assault.
Jason confronted two mini-gunners and told them that if they can kill
him, the militia would be theirs to command. Despite their overwhelming
firepower, the two brutes were easily defeated by the Arkham Knight, who
then fired warning shots around their heads, while informing the militia
that even the best mercenaries in the world are no match for Batman.
Jason than told the militia that Deathstroke will be back in Central
America to finish their training before riding off.

Once back in Gotham, Jason was listening in on a conversation via radio
between Tim and Barbara about Batman rescuing the baby kidnapped by the
Calendar Man. Jason than fled the clock tower area and entered the
sewers to drive off in an APC, which caught the attention of the
Riddler. He drove to the old Holiday Hotel where Calendar Man was
planning to kill Batman, but as soon as Jason began scanning the
entrance, he set off an explosion. Jason grappled away in time, but the
blast scattered calendar pages all over the roof of the building and
upon finding a piece of straw, he wondered what Scarecrow was planning.
Once Crane arrived at his hideout in Chinatown, he was about to test his
new fear toxin on a man strapped to a table when the Arkham Knight
ambushed him and injected him with his own toxin. Jason than informed
Crane that they have met before and that he can't have him screwing up
his plans for Batman. Scarecrow however was not affected by the toxin
and told the Arkham Knight that they should work together to get what
they want. Jason decided not to kill Scarecrow and instead followed
Crane upstairs to where he was keeping even more test subjects, whom
were mostly dead because they couldn't handle the stain the new toxin
brought upon their bodies and minds. Jason than shot the last remaining
victim in the head to put him out of his misery and told Crane that if
he needs a stronger test subject, he "knows just the guy". Bane was than
brought to Scarecrow and imprisoned while hallucinating a priest from
Santa Prisca transforming into a nightmarish bat demon. Jason asked
Scarecrow how long the toxin lasts and Crane replied that his old
patients hallucinated for days with a single dose, but the new toxin
will be never-ending. Crane also informed the Arkahm Knight that he
plans for Batman to be the first to fall victim to his new toxin once it
has been perfected. Jason than informed Crane that he has been planning
to combat Batman for years and will be using the tunnels dug by Bane's
men to smuggle the militia into the city. However he was still facing
the issue of Gotham's criminal underworld interfering with his revenge,
so Crane proposed the idea of convincing them to simply keep the dark
knight busy while they devise a way to spend the toxin throughout the
city. In order to distract Batman for the time being, the Arkham Knight
released Bane(who was still under the effects of the toxin) and told the
raging villain Batman's true identity and to ambush him at Wayne
Tower.

Bane was mostly dominating the fight between him and Batman, while
Two-face, Penguin, Riddler, Harley Quinn, and Poison Ivy all observed
the conflict on T.V. at Scarecrow's safe house in Chinatown. Scarecrow
than introduced the villains to the Arkham Knight and despite their
doubts, Crane insured them that with his new fear toxin, the Knight's
weaponry, and their overall alliance, they will finally have their
revenge on the Caped Crusader. The villains were still in doubt about
trusting Scarecrow and the Arkham Knight, until Jason ordered
Deathstroke to fire a missile from a serpent drone right at the window
they were all standing by. Jason explained that this was just a small
sample of the firepower that he has throughout Gotham and that he's not
simply asking them to join him, he's telling them that they all need
each other to finish off Batman. To further prove his strength, Jason
arrived at the site of Batman's battle with Bane in an APC and lassoed
the crazed brute away from the fight, stating that he served his
purpose. Bane was so enraged at the Knight's interference, he begin
attacking him, even managing to damage Jason's visor. During the
struggle, Jason tore apart Bane's mask and finally managed to get the
better of him by cutting Bane's throat, shooting him in the leg, and
than tricked him into charging into an ACE chemical truck, which Jason
caused to explode right in front of Bane. As the heavily burned brute
laid immobilized on the ground, Jason stated to Bane that the both of
them have lived through the same type of pain in the past and he never
has to feel that way again. Jason than fired several bullets in Bane's
head and than presented his badly burned corpse to the other villains.
Before grappling away, Jason informed them that Batman will die on
Halloween night and this would be their last chance to ally with him.
Later, Jason met with Deathstroke and the militia in the underground
tunnels to inspect their final preparations for Gotham. He also informed
Slade that once Scarecrow's new toxin causes a citywide evacuation, the
militia will take control of Gotham and have the city's criminals slowly
chip away at Batman before finally putting a bullet in the dark knight's
skull.


In other media

Film

[Jason Todd in Batman: Under the Red Hood as Red Hood (left) and as
Robin (center and right).] Jason Todd makes his animated debut in the 
Animated Original Movie Batman: Under the Red Hood, with the Red Hood
voiced by Jensen Ackles, and Robin voiced by Vincent Martella (as a
teenager) and by Alexander Martella (as a child). Jason first met
Batman when he stole the Batmobile's tires in Crime Alley. The Dark
Knight then pitied Jason and took him in to take up the Robin mantle
after Dick Grayson. Although Robin was fine with showdowns like with the
Riddler, time passed and Jason grew increasingly violent, not
understanding why his mentor did not kill the criminals they faced. When
Ra's al Ghul hired the Joker to distract the Dynamic Duo, Robin seeks to
kill the Joker while Batman fought the villain's goons. However, the
Joker had set a trap and captured Jason before brutally beating Robin
with a crowbar. The Joker then left Robin's severely injured body in a
warehouse set to explode. Before Batman could get to him in time, Jason
perished in the explosion. Feeling guilt for inadvertently causing
Jason's death, Ra's retrieved his body and resurrected the boy with a
Lazarus Pit. However, the effects drove Jason insane, escaping Ra's
compound. Five years later, he returns to Gotham City under the Red Hood
alias, convincing all of Gotham's gangsters to join him in overtaking
Gotham's most powerful crime lord Black Mask. After encountering Batman
and Nightwing, Red Hood taunting mentions the Dark Knight's secret
identity, and Batman eventually learns that his former partner had
returned from the dead under the Joker's former criminal identity. Red
Hood then attacked the Black Mask, prompting the crime lord to break the
Joker out of prison to help. This way, Red Hood could exact his revenge
on the Clown Prince of Crime with out having to break into Arkham
Asylum. After capturing the Joker, Jason lures Batman to an abandoned
building and confronts them both; he forgave Batman for not saving him,
but is angered that Batman had allowed the Joker to live, and continue
murdering for years after Jason's own death; Todd thinks his own death
should have been the final straw. After Batman disarmed Jason, the
former Boy Wonder activated explosives placed throughout the building,
which ended with Batman apprehending the Joker once more and Jason
escaping into the night.

Video games

-   Jason Todd is playable in the mobile app version of Injustice: Gods
    Among Us as the Arkham Knight.

Lego Batman

-   The Jason Todd version of Red Hood appears as a playable character
    via DLC in Lego Batman 2:  Super Heroes.
-   The Jason Todd version of Red Hood appears as a playable character
    in Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham, voiced by Troy Baker.

Batman: Arkham

[The Arkham Knight in concept art for Batman: Arkham Knight.] Jason
Todd appears in the video game Batman: Arkham Knight, with Troy Baker
reprising the role. Sometime after Batman: Arkham Origins but before
Batman: Arkham Asylum, street orphan Jason was taken in by Batman
after Dick Grayson’s departure and trained in all forms of combat as the
second Robin. However, Jason was captured by the Joker. Although a video
was sent to the Caped Crusader of Jason’s apparent death, the Joker lied
and was revealed to have held Jason in an abandoned wing of Arkham
Asylum for over a year, torturing him and breaking his sanity. After
the Joker showed Jason a picture of Batman with Tim Drake as Robin,
Jason snapped and found himself resenting his former mentor more than
anything else. Succeeding in making Jason hate Batman, the Joker set him
free, allowing Todd to start planning his revenge on Batman for leaving
him. Jason utilized advanced technology to develop a high-tech tactical
battlesuit and equipment, forming his own army of personally trained
soldiers in Venezuela. Todd soon adopted the identity of the “ARKHAM
KNIGHT”, the antithetical and militaristic version of Batman. Years
later, the Arkham Knight discovered the Joker's death in Batman: Arkham
City, leaving a power vacuum in Gotham’s criminal underworld. When
crime rates plummeted without the Clown Prince of Crime’s iron grip over
Gotham’s criminals, the Arkham Knight appeared in Gotham City, forging
an alliance with the Scarecrow. Together, the two united all of Gotham’s
masterminds, crime lords, thugs, thieves and gangsters in an attempt to
rid themselves of the Dark Knight once and for all. The Scarecrow forced
Gotham’s inhabitants to evacuate with the newest strain of fear toxin,
allowing the Arkham Knight’s militia to take complete control over the
city. In the beginning of the game, the Arkham Knight and his militia
provide an escort for the Scarecrow at ACE Chemicals, protecting from
Batman and the police while preparing to cover the entire eastern
seaboard with fear gas. When Batman arrived, the Arkham Knight tries to
kill with his chopper, only to be stopped by the Scarecrow (who wanted
the Dark Knight to suffer first). Eventually, Batman reduced the chain
reaction in the central mixing chamber, stopping the fear gas from being
released. Later, the Arkham Knight kidnaps Oracle from her clock tower
and holds Oracle hostage. When Batman tracked Oracle to a militia
facility, the Arkham Knight cornered and shot Batman in the chest before
leaving the scene. The villain later assists Scarecrow in escaping Simon
Stagg's airship with the fear toxin dispersing machine, “The
Cloudburst”. The Arkham Knight then attaches the Cloudburst to his
personal tank and battles Batman in the Batmobile, only for the hero to
destroy the device. When Batman broke into the militia's headquarters,
the Arkham Knight once again confronts Batman in the excavator tunnels
with a mining vehicle. Although the Arkham Knight destroyed the
Batmobile, Batman managed to escape. The Arkham Knight eventually
revealed himself as the former Robin to Batman when the hero was
attempting to save Commissioner Gordon. After defeating Jason, Batman
offered to help his former partner recover, but Jason stated that it was
too late to help him and escaped. At the end of the game, Jason saves
Batman from being executed by Scarecrow after being publicly exposed as
Bruce Wayne. Jason later adopts the Red Hood persona once again to be a
vigilante, albeit with extreme measures such as the use of guns and
lethal force. He wears the same red helmet that he had at the end of the
game's main story, but now has a white leather jacket and a Red Hood
symbol painted on his chest and back. As Red Hood, he has a DLC
storyline in which he hunts down and kills the crime lord Black
Mask.


Merchandise

-   In 2014,  Collectibles released a Red Hood figure in the "Red Hood
    and the Outlaws" wave, based on the comic book of the same name.
-   Two figures of Jason Todd were released as part of Mattel's 
    Comics Multiverse line, one in his Red Hood persona and the other in
    his Arkham Knight persona.
-   In 2015,  Collectibles released a Gamestop exclusive Red Hood
    figure based on his appearance in the Red Hood DLC for the video
    game Batman: Arkham Knight
-   In 2015,  Collectibles released an Arkham Knight figure as part of
    series one based on the video game Batman: Arkham Knight.
    Originally set for release in March with the other figures, this
    figure was delayed until September due to spoiler issues, as the
    sniper rifle accessory that was included with the Arkham Knight had
    a Red Hood logo imprinted on it, revealing the character's true
    identity in the game.
-   Funko Mystery Minis has released an Arkham Knight minifigure in
    their Batman: Arkham Series line.

