JERICHO (real name JOSEPH WILLIAM WILSON) is a fictional character who
appears in American comic books published by . The character
was originally a superhero and member of the Teen Titans during the The
New Teen Titans period by Marv Wolfman and George Pérez. Since the
early 1990s, Jericho has gone through periods of both sanity and
insanity.


Development

Jericho was created in the early 1980s, a few years after Marv Wolfman
and George Pérez relaunched the Teen Titans series and turned it into a
major hit for . At the time, Wolfman and Pérez were interested
in distancing the team from the Justice League, many of whose members
had been mentors to the Titans. This meant introducing new characters
such as the mystical Raven and the technological Cyborg, as well as
changing some of the existing characters, such as having Dick Grayson
trade in his identity as Robin in favor of Nightwing. Jericho was part
of this process of establishing the team as its own creature rather
than, in Pérez' words, a "Justice Little League". Marv Wolfman had
decided on the name, which he got from an unused character from the
previous Titans series, and with the idea of Jericho being the son of
Deathstroke the Terminator, then the primary villain in the Titans
series, but could not think of any other aspects of the character.
George Pérez worked out the design, powers, and personality of Jericho
and also suggested making the character mute. In something of a
departure, he also insisted that Jericho's emotions be conveyed entirely
through visuals, without the use of thought balloons. Pérez claims that
Jericho is the first character which he created solely by himself.


Fictional character biography

Childhood

Joseph was the youngest son of Slade Wilson (Deathstroke the
Terminator). He was a musical prodigy. When he was a child, he was held
hostage by the terrorist Jackal in an effort to obtain information from
his father. Deathstroke refused to cooperate with Jackal, citing a
violation of his professional code of ethics. Deathstroke managed to
rescue his son, but not before one of Jackal's men cut his throat. As a
result, Joseph was rendered mute.

Following the incident, Joseph's mother Adeline divorced Slade (she had
previously tried to kill him, but only succeeded in blinding him in one
eye) and took Joseph and his older brother Grant with her. At some
point, Joseph learned to communicate through sign language (identified
in Action Comics #584 as American Sign Language). In his late teens,
Joey discovered that he possessed the metahuman power to take possession
of any humanoid being by making eye contact with it, a result of
biological experimentation done on his father years before. He used it
to save his mother from an assassin.

Titans

Sometime later (in a storyline called "The Judas Contract"), Adeline and
Joseph discovered that Deathstroke had accepted a contract on the Teen
Titans. They approached Dick Grayson to help him rescue the Titans, with
Joseph adopting the identity of Jericho. The rescue mission was a
success, and Jericho subsequently joined the team, but the Titans were
initially wary of him because of his relationship to Deathstroke, and
the betrayal of Terra.

[The New Titans #83 (1992), the final appearance of Jericho with his
original appearance. The character returned eleven years later with a
new look.] Jericho was a loyal Titan for many years. Shortly after he
joined the Titans, another new member, Kole, joined. Jericho immediately
developed a bond with her.

Corruption

Unbeknownest to anyone, Jericho was possessed by the souls of Azarath,
tainted by the essence of the demon Trigon, Raven's father. Unable to
possess Raven herself, the souls entered Jericho. They were weak at
first, but gained strength with time and eventually merged with him.

Jericho laid dormant within his own mind while the souls of Azarath
began searching for new bodies. The souls needed individual vessels to
survive and sought to acquire superhuman ones, taking over the
Wildebeest Society and using them to abduct current and former Titans to
act as vessels. Jericho gained new powers: a powerful lion soul-self and
a healing ability that repaired his throat and allowed him to speak
again.

In the "Titans Hunt" storyline, Nightwing and Troia, accompanied by some
new allies, found and confronted him. During the battle, the real
Jericho resurfaced and begged his father to kill him. There was no help
for him and, to spare his son any more suffering, Deathstroke killed
him. A statue of Jericho was later erected in the Titans Tower memorial
in San Francisco.

Return

Several years later, it was revealed that Jericho's spirit had survived
by jumping inside his father right before he was killed. He had lain
dormant until hearing that his friend Donna Troy had been killed in
battle. Taking control of his father's body, he sought out the latest
group of Titans; hoping to convince them that children shouldn't be
superheroes and wanting to spare them his fate. He also killed his
father's closest friend, Wintergreen, and mounted the man's head on a
wall.

Further demonstrating his mental instability, while in Deathstroke's
body he viciously attacked his former friends, and even shot Impulse in
the knee.

During the combat, he jumped from body to body until Raven absorbed him.
During a battle with Brother Blood, she repelled him when she
unintentionally absorbed her teammates Deathstroke and Rose into her
soul-self. Jericho managed to use the bodies of Wonder Girl and Superboy
against the team, but when he tried to enter Cyborg, Cyborg used his
cybernetic eye to transfer Jericho's spirit to a computer file, now
stored in Titans Tower. Beast Boy says that they check on Jericho every
day.

After the "One Year Later" jump following the events of Infinite
Crisis, Raven took the disk with Jericho's essence and, using the same
ritual the Church of Brother Blood previously employed to raise her from
the dead, resurrected Jericho in an new body, missing the throat scars
from his childhood injury. However, for reasons never explained, despite
the fact he no longer had the physical damage of his old body, Joey
remained unable to speak, and continued to use sign language to
communicate. Jericho joined the latest incarnation of the team,
taking the opportunity to bond with his half-sister Rose, who was the
new Ravager. After possessing the body of Superboy's dangerous clone
Match, Jericho moved to S.T.A.R. Labs until a way was found to control
Match.

Later Jericho, still trapped in Match's body, seemingly escaped from
S.T.A.R. Labs in visible distress and asking for his friends' help.
The Titans managed to help him escape Match's body, but it soon became
apparent how much the experience had twisted Jericho's mind, leaving him
bent on the Titans' destruction.

Jericho briefly escaped the Titans to plague the Presidential Election
of 2008 of the main  Universe, even going so far as to use Green
Lantern's body to fight the Justice League upon being discovered.
The will-based powers of Hal prove to be his undoing, as Hal was able to
push Jericho out of his body. Jericho was brought to the JLA Satellite
for safe-keeping. Mento mindprobed Jericho, discovering that he was
suffering from a particular and severe form of dissociative identity
disorder, caused by years of reckless body-hopping. Unable to purge
his mind of the lingering echoes of the personality he had to submerge
when taking possession of an individual, he had his mind overruled by
the most evil and strong willed patterns, causing him to take on a
criminal, ruthless personality opposed to his former gentle self. The
JLA decides to send him back to S.T.A.R. Labs, hoping for a cure.

Jericho managed to escape the JLA, and returned to the Titans, now
inhabiting Nightwing's body. The JLA arrived to reclaim him, and he
started jumping into the bodies of whoever tried to capture him. This
backfired when Jericho jumped into Superman's body. Although stronger
than he once was, Jericho found himself unable to control Superman's
alien body. Jericho briefly managed to gain control of himself over the
evil impulses, and seemingly vanished into nothingness.

Deathtrap

Jericho later returns, having entered Cyborg's body through his
mechanical eye, using an "imprint" left over from the last time. He used
Titans Tower's defenses to try to kill the Teen Titans, but their new
member Static used his electrical powers to short out the Tower's
systems, creating feedback that knocked Jericho out of Cyborg.
Jericho escaped once more and, spurred on by the multiple personalities
inside him (particularly that of his father), sets into motion a
"Deathtrap" scenario. Jericho unsuccessfully attempted to murder
both the Teen Titans and the Titans (his former teammates), who
eventually apprehend him. While in police custody, he was confronted by
the new Vigilante. Determined to end the villain's rampage permanently
(but having promised Rose Wilson that he would not kill him), Vigilante
gouged out both of his eyes, rendering him unable to use his possession
abilities. The trauma of the incident caused Jericho to revert to his
true personality, but he was left haunted by the various personalities
in his mind.

Blackest Night

In a Teen Titans tie-in to the Blackest Night crossover, Jericho is
seen in possession of Grant's body, now a member of the undead Black
Lantern Corps, saving Rose from the attack of Adeline, Wintergreen, and
Wade Defarge. Jericho revealed to Rose that his eyes grew back after
Vigilante's attack, and that he used his power to enter Grant's body
when he attempted to kill him. Jericho then entered his mother's body,
tricking the Black Lanterns into destroying each other. In the
aftermath, Jericho reconciled with his father, reasoning that
Deathstroke would be the only one who could kill him if he were ever to
succumb to the murderous personalities inside his mind.

Brightest Day

Deathstroke hired Doctor Sivana and Doctor Impossible to create a
diabolical invention with a healing factor called the "Methuselah
Device" to save Jericho who was dying from leprosy. Once Jericho is
placed in the machine, they activate the Methuselah, which restores
Jericho's body. Deathstroke offers its abilities to all of the Titans,
promising to restore their deceased loved ones as payment for their
services. Some Titans accept, but other Titans refuse and the team
fights. Deathstroke walks away with his son, but Jericho possessed him,
disgusted at what his father did to achieve his restoration. He intends
to destroy first the Methuselah Device, then himself and
Deathstroke. While the Titans fight over the Methuselah, its power
source, a metahuman named DJ Molecule, is released. DJ Molecule blasts
Deathstroke, knocking Jericho out of his body. Jericho is then slashed
by Cheshire. When Cinder sacrifices herself to destroy the Methuselah,
Jericho is carried out by Arsenal. Arsenal and Jericho then decide to
form a new team of Titans, to restore the legacy that Deathstroke
damaged.

The New 52

In The New 52 (a reboot of the  universe), Jericho had his
entire origin story changed. He and his mother were believed to have
died when North Koreans attacked their home. Slade Wilson (now calling
himself Deathstroke) had made many enemies worldwide and had repeatedly
placed his family in the crosshairs. Jericho at some point exposed
himself to the Gen-factor which gave him his powers. Now a man in his
early 20s, Jericho has plans to destroy his father's life that he had
built for himself with the help of his mother and brother. However, it
was eventually revealed that Jericho had taken control of his own mother
and brother and forced them to hate Deathstroke. Joseph was apparently
killed along with his brother until, a later scene of a worker with
glowing green eyes hinted at Joseph possessing a man to save himself and
escape.

Due to his enormous powers, Jericho was captured by his own grandfather,
Nathaniel Wilson. Under the alias of Odysseus, he wanted to siphoned
Joe's metahuman power to become practically invincible. Joe was
eventually saved by his father and sister, but the ordeal left Joe with
problems controlling his powers, and currently seeks solitude while
trying to run from Odysseus.


Powers and abilities

Jericho can possess a person after making eye contact with them; his
body turns insubstantial and enters the subject. While he is in
possession, Jericho has access to all of that host's powers (physical,
mental, and magical), and is also able to tap into their memories.
Jericho's victims stay conscious and may even express themselves
vocally, but they are not able to control the actions of their bodies as
directed by Jericho. If the person is unconscious, Jericho can use their
voice to speak, albeit with their accent and . only using the words they
know. Jericho sometimes uses the American manual alphabet letter "J" as
his Sign name in order to signal to his allies that he has taken
possession of a person.

This power is most effective on human or meta-human bodies; when Jericho
once possessed Superman, he was unable to maintain control of the
Kryptonian brain for long.

He is skilled in hand-to-hand combat and able to hold his own against
his father.

Jericho's power depends on eye contact with living beings; if he is
blinded, or the being he attempts to possess is not a natural creature,
his power fails. In this way, he was tricked by his teammate Cyborg
during a training exercise, when the latter closed his natural eye and
Jericho failed to take possession by attempting to contact his
artificial eye. Jericho has since overcome this limitation and was able
to control Cyborg through his electronic eye. Jericho has also shown the
ability to regrow his gouged out eyeballs; this feat apparently came
with the price of a still impaired vision, but the return of his
possession ability in its full capacity.

When possessed by the spirits of Azarath, Jericho had a powerful lion
soul self and a healing ability.


In other media

Television

-   Jericho appeared in the "Calling All Titans" episode of the animated
    Teen Titans series. He meets Beast Boy and becomes an honorary
    Titan and has to fight off both Fang and Private H.I.V.E. In the
    next episode, "Titans Together," he is one of four heroes who
    endured an attack from the Brotherhood of Evil and rallied under
    Beast Boy to launch a final assault against the Brotherhood. Like
    his early comic persona, Jericho in the animated series can possess
    any being he can make eye contact with. He is mute in the show as he
    is in the comic books. However, while in Cinderblock's body, he was
    able to speak, though this is purely due to the fact that
    Cinderblock's body has functional vocal cords, though Cinderblock is
    not shown to speak by himself. However, his power was useless when
    Gizmo put a bag over his head, unable to make eye contact
    with anyone. He was saved when reinforcements arrived with Cyborg,
    Starfire, and Raven. His relation to Deathstroke (who was known
    simply as Slade on the show) was never mentioned.
-   In the TV series Arrow episode titled "The Odyssey", Jericho is
    referenced when Slade Wilson mentions that Billy Wintergreen is the
    godfather of his son "Joe". In Season 2 episode "Tremors", Oliver
    tries to calm Slade's Mirakuru-induced madness by focusing him on
    his son, which ultimately works. It was revealed in the tie-in
    novel, Arrow: Vengeance, that Slade returned to Australia, moving
    back in with his ex-wife Adie and his son, Joe. When Slade's ASIS
    boss Wade DeForge learned Slade had killed Billy Wintergreen, he
    attempted to apprehend Slade using ASIS forces. Adie was killed in
    the firefight that developed. Slade shot DeForge four times, but the
    bullets passed through his chest and killed Joe, who was standing
    over his mother's body. In "The Promise" when Slade is "socializing"
    with Oliver and Moira she asks if he has any children to which Slade
    replies no, earning a disgusted look from Oliver.


Sexuality

When Marv Wolfman and George Pérez were creating the character, they
toyed around with the idea of making Joseph gay. Pérez had this to say:
"While Marv and I did discuss the possibility of Joseph Wilson being
gay, Marv decided that it was too much of a stereotype to have the
sensitive, artistic, and wide-eyed character with arguably effeminate
features be also homosexual". Joseph has had romantic connections with
Raven and Kole.

