JESSE CHAMBERS is a fictional comic book character in the . Chambers,
who first used the superhero name JESSE QUICK and later LIBERTY
BELLE, is the daughter of Golden Age heroes Johnny Quick and Liberty
Belle. She inherited both of her parents' powers.


Publication history

The 1992 limited series Armageddon: Inferno re-introduced the Justice
Society of America after their disappearance into and re-emergence from
the limbo dimension of Ragnarok (where they had been trapped since
1986's The Last Days of the Justice Society). Subsequently, a new
Justice Society of America series (vol. 2) debuted. The series' first
issue introduced the character of Jesse Chambers. Thereafter, Jesse
became a supporting character in The Flash (vol. 2) as Wally West's
partner, Jesse Quick.

In 1999, Jesse was featured in a lead role in writer Devin Grayson's
series Titans, which ran until 2002. After 50 issues, Titans was
cancelled and ultimately relaunched in writer Judd Winick's
Titans/Young Justice: Graduation Day limited series. Jesse was not
part of the new roster of Titans introduced after Graduation Day.

Following Graduation Day, Jesse played a small supporting role in
Geoff Johns and David Goyer's JSA series, where she served as Rick
Tyler's love interest. When the book relaunched in 2006 as Justice
Society of America (vol. 3), Jesse was featured as one of the main
characters, now going by the name of Liberty Belle. She served primarily
under the Liberty Belle name until Johns' 2009 limited series, Flash:
Rebirth, where she returned to the Jesse Quick identity. She continued
to feature as one of the leads in Justice Society until late 2010,
when she was brought over to the writer James Robinson's revamp of the
Justice League of America (vol. 2) series.

In addition, the character was the star of the Liberty Belle & Hourman
back-up feature in JSA All-Stars from issue #2 of the series. Written
by Jen Van Meter and drawn by Travis Moore, the series was an
action/romance feature which chronicled the adventures of Jesse and her
husband Rick as they battled the villainous couple of Tigress and
Icicle. The series had its finale in JSA All-Stars #10 in October
2010.


Fictional character biography

Origin and early career

In hopes of creating a successor, Johnny Quick taught the formula that
gave him his enhanced speed to his daughter, Jesse. The formula worked
on Jesse as well and she gained super-speed. Contrary to what her father
had intended however, Jesse instead opted to continue her education,
rather than becoming a costumed crimefighter.

While Jesse was studying at Gotham University, the superhero team her
parents had been colleagues with, the Justice Society of America,
reemerged following a long absence. Naturally, her thesis topic became
"The Impact of Superheroes on Society" and she began to follow the
returned heroes, cataloguing their adventures. When her father asked her
to deliver some documents to the Society, the encounter would result in
her aiding the team as Jesse Quick, finally living up to her father's
dream of her being a costumed crimefighter.

It was during that time that she met Wally West, the Flash, who would
later ask her to be his replacement if something were to happen to him.
It was all an elaborate plan on his part, trying to force Bart Allen,
Impulse, to take his role in the legacy of the Flash more seriously, and
be Wally's successor. Although she felt betrayed, she would end up
saving Wally's life, although her leg was hurt in the process. When
Wally returned from the mythical Speed Force, he healed her leg, and the
earlier deception was largely forgiven, but not forgotten.

When, shortly after, Jesse lost her enhanced speed, the person she
blamed was Wally who had been directly using the Speed Force energies
instead of simply tapping them like the other speedsters did. In fact it
turned out to be the villain Savitar who was the cause, having severed
her connection to the Speed Force, as well as multiple other speedsters.
Nonetheless, Wally chose the depowered Jesse to accompany him to
Savitar's lair, where she succeeded in regaining her powers. During the
following battle with Savitar, her father gave his life in order to
protect his daughter from one of Savitar's forces and merged with the
Speed Force. Although Wally would ultimately triumph over the villain,
Jesse was left to mourn her father.

Per Degaton told her she would do something terrible, destroying the
world.

Titans

Jesse accepted the reins of managing her father's corporation,
Quickstart Enterprises, while also operating as Jesse Quick, even
joining the members of the New Titans to stop a nuclear threat. When the
Titans were later going through a reorganization, Wally, a founding
member, selected Jesse to join the roster, hoping to soothe their old
wounds. After initially declining the offer, she ultimately joined the
Titans, but was only on the team for a short time, feeling herself to be
second-best to Wally.

Nightwing, another founding member, persuaded Jesse to return to the
Titans. Later Jesse became involved in a murder mystery involving her
own widowed mother, Libby Lawrence. The victim was Philip Geyer, Libby's
fiancé. An investigation by the Titans revealed not only the killer, but
also an ongoing affair between Philip and Jesse which had contributed to
his death. Although Jesse attempted to reconcile with her mother, the
saddened Libby found it hard to forgive her daughter, although she
apparently did, as in later appearances the two had returned to their
friendly relationship. The Titans were disbanded not long afterwards, as
two of the team's members were killed in an attack by a rogue Superman
robot in the limited series Titans/Young Justice: Graduation Day.

Powerless

[Jesse saving Wally West during the battle with Zoom.] Following that
disbanding of the team, Jesse threw herself back into her
responsibilities at Quickstart Enterprises, finding little time for a
social life. When Wally would later need assistance to defeat the
villain Zoom who was capable of moving at speeds surpassing any of
Earth's other speedsters, Jesse lent Wally a portion of her special
abilities, temporarily boosting Wally's speed so that he was moving
almost faster than light and allowing him to defeat Zoom, but leaving
her powerless and unable to remember the formula to access her powers.
Although Wally knew the formula, she told him not to remind her,
reminding him that he had earlier told her that she needed to slow down
anyway.

After that, she worked as business manager for a newly reformed Justice
Society of America. The JSA successfully rescued her mother, who had
returned to her role as Liberty Belle, but whose powers had gone out of
control. In that same adventure, mother and daughter reconciled.

One Year Later

In Justice Society of America (vol. 3) #1, Jesse had become a member
of the Justice Society, carrying on her mother's legacy as the new
Liberty Belle. She is now married to fellow second-generation hero Rick
Tyler, also known as Hourman.

After hearing the news of Bart Allen's death, she, along with Jay
Garrick mourned his demise; her reaction to Wally West's return from the
Speed Force is as yet unknown.

In an encounter with Zoom, it is revealed that Jesse has retained her
speed powers by repeating her father's formula. This adds to her
super-strength, which means she inherited both of her parents' powers.
In the same encounter, she talks the hero Damage out of murdering
Zoom.

In The Flash: Rebirth mini-series, an explosion suddenly occurs in
front of the pair. Jesse is shocked to see her father Johnny Quick is
alive in the Speed Force, as he materializes and begs Barry Allen not to
hurt Jesse before vanishing (but he dies later by Professor Zoom's
actions). Hourman is tending to Jesse, who (since seeing her father)
has begun repeating her father's speed formula over and over. Jesse, now
crackling with Speed Force energy, stops repeating the Speed Formula.
She reveals that she has finally solved the equation: "Jesse Quick. Max
Mercury. Jay Garrick. Wally West. Bart Allen. Barry Allen. The Speed
Force."

When Wally West's twins Jai and Iris are struck with crippling pain
thanks to Professor Zoom, Iris takes Jai's connection to the Speed Force
and nearly kills herself doing so. Jesse arrives and recites the
now-revealed Speed Mantra to revive Iris, telling Jai and Linda West
that Iris is the next generation of speedsters. The two join the battle
between the revealed Professor Zoom and the combined forces of the three
Flashes (Jay, Wally, and Barry), Max Mercury, and Kid Flash. With the
speedsters reunited, Wally uses a trick with the Speed Force,
revitalizing the speedsters and transforming his, Jesse's, and Iris's
outfits. Jesse dons a uniform patterned after her father's.

She returns to her Liberty Belle outfit for a few adventures leading up
to the Blackest Night event, but switches to her Jesse Quick identity
and costume when she is attacked by the reanimated corpse of her
father. Liberty Belle is found by her father, Johnny Quick, who
claims that Jesse's love for him was the reason he came back. Jesse says
that she has a uniform like his and quickly changes into it by reciting
the mathematical formula that her father originally used and calls
herself Jesse Quick. The two speedsters then run off. While she is
running across the globe with her father trying to enjoy the time she's
spending with her father, she thinks she should rather be with her
husband, the modern-day Hourman. Jesse continues to run with her father,
remembering her childhood memories of when they used to jog together
around their neighborhood and Johnny would let her win, feeling thankful
that she was able to spend only a few moments with him again. Later,
Black Lantern Johnny Quick is destroyed by Mr. Terrific's machine that
turned off the Black Lanterns' connection to their rings.

When the JSA splits into two teams, Jesse remained with the JSA,
while her husband Rick went to the JSA All-Stars. However, Rick and
Jesse remain happily married, although her teammates and the public at
large believe otherwise; forcing Rick to explain their condition as, "A
working couple working in different offices."

At Wonder-Con, writer James Robinson announced that Jesse would be
joining the Justice League of America as part of 's Brightest Day
event. This development occurred at the conclusion of the JLA/JSA
crossover, The Dark Things, with Batman asking Jesse to join the JLA
in order to fill her old friend Wally West's role as the team
speedster.

During her tenure with the JLA, Jesse gradually begins to lose her speed
abilities, and it is eventually revealed that this is due to her
becoming pregnant. The League disbands shortly after this, and Jesse
leaves to be with Rick.


Powers and abilities

Just like her father, Jesse has powers of flight and accelerated speed,
resulting from the state of mind achieved from the visualization of the
speed-formula: 3X2(9YZ)4A. Her powers are linked to the Speed Force. She
also has her mother's super-strength, enabling her to lift great
weights, such as a car, with ease. As with her mother, the mechanism of
her super-strength remains unexplained, which irritated her father. She
attributes her powers to a "mantra" like the formula used by her father
to unlock his speed.


Other versions

-   Jesse Quick appears in Teen Titans Go!_ #52 as an alternate alias
    of Robby Reed. Unknown to both Robby and the Titans, his Hero Dial
    borrows power from any hero who's in close proximity to him, and
    thus becomes Jesse Quick when Kid Flash is close by. This Jesse is
    a boy.

-   A teenage version of Jesse Chambers appear in the Ame-Comi universe
    as that world's version of the Flash, sporting an
    Anime-inspired redesign. She makes her first appearance when she
    teams up with Steel and Robin in order to rescue Batgirl from Duela
    Dent.

-   In Injustice: Gods Among Us issue #20 comic, Lex informs the
    Justice League that he was saved from the Joker's nuclear explosion
    by an unnamed speedster he had on his payroll who
    perished afterward. Though she is not identified, she wears a Flash
    costume and has the same hair color as Jesse Quick.


In other media

Television

-   Jesse Quick appears in Season 2 of The Flash, portrayed by Violett
    Beane. This incarnation of the character is called Jesse
    Chambers Wells (nicknamed "Jesse Quick" by her father), the daughter
    of Earth-2 Harrison Wells, and was held hostage by Zoom. She is
    eventually rescued by her father, the Earth-1 Flash, and their
    teammates, escaping to Earth-1 without any hopes of returning to her
    native earth. Her higher intellect above that of her father's is
    evident when Dr. Wells is unable to solve an algorithm dealing with
    trajectory waves yet her assistance comes to be effective in solving
    the problem. She, like her father, also appears to not get along
    with Cisco. In "Trajectory," while Jesse is out clubbing with the
    others (and given a device by Wells to keep her safe), she discovers
    the lengths her father is willing to take to protect her, as he's
    even killed a man. The villain Trajectory injects Jesse with
    Velocity-9 during her attack on S.T.A.R. labs and she is saved by a
    blood transfusion by her father. She is disappointed that Wells was
    willing to risk thousands just to save her by making Trajectory more
    batches of Velocity-9. The next day, Jesse leaves Central City on a
    bus to Opal City, encouraging her father not to come after her.
    Wells eventually tracks her down, but she refuses to go back with
    him, still guilty of her father killing a man and blaming Wells for
    all that's happened to her. Wells is kidnapped by a metahuman named
    Griffin Grey, who mistakes him for his Earth-1 counterpart (Eobard
    Thawne). A powerless Barry gets Jesse's help in rescuing her father
    using her scientific skills to determine Griffin's powers and her
    father's location. After rescuing Wells, she decides to stay with
    him this time after Wells admits his determination to protect her
    came from her mother's death.

