THE JESTER is a fictional character, a Golden Age superhero created by
Paul Gustavson and published by Quality Comics. He first appeared in
Smash Comics #22 (May 1941). Like most of Quality's characters, the
Jester was later purchased by  and incorporated into their
universe. Though little used by the company, he appeared in All-Star
Squadron #31 and #60 and Starman #46.


Fictional character biography

Rookie cop CHUCK LANE learns that he is a direct descendant of a
medieval court jester. Because of this, and the fact that he feels he is
not doing enough good as a cop alone, he becomes a colorfully costumed
adventurer known as the JESTER. The Jester is a comical crime fighter
who makes laughing-stocks out of the criminals he fights. He is known to
be an unpredictable hero whose eerie laugh and jingling bells are an
ominous sign to his enemies. His costume is worn under his police
uniform.

The Jester becomes a member of both the All-Star Squadron and Uncle
Sam's Freedom Fighters. His last recorded mission is in 1952, and
sometime after that he gives up being the Jester to become a normal cop
again.

In modern times, an aged Jester is the head of a group of patriotic
radicals known as THE ARCADIANS, seeking to "cleanse" America of its
"corrupt" governments. To this end, he has his underlings (among whom is
his grandson, Charles, who has taken on his costumed identity) kidnap
the Vice President and his wife, with the ransom being the recovering of
mystical artifacs by the Freedom Fighters. When government agents
track the group's communications to Lane's home, he sets off powerful
explosives, killing the agents and himself along with them.

-   Freedom Fighters (vol. 2) #7
-   Freedom Fighters (vol. 2) #8


Powers and abilities

The Jester has no superpowers, but is an Olympic-level athlete and a
brilliant hand-to-hand combatant and in some later adventures is aided
by a small flying sphere with a smiling face and handles on the side
called QUINOPOLIS. He is also a skilled detective, trained in various
techniques of police procedure.

