JOSIAH POWER is a fictional superhero published by . He first
appears in JLA #61 (February 2002), but his origin is told in Power
Company: Josiah Power #1, (March 2002). Josiah was created by Kurt
Busiek and Tom Grummett.


Fictional character biography

[Josiah transformed from Power Company #4, artist Tom Grummett] The
impressively tall, craggy featured Josiah Power was one of America’s
best lawyers until his metagene was triggered during the alien Invasion
by the activation of the GENE BOMB.

Following the untimely public activation of his metagene in the court
room, corporate attorney Josiah Power was dismissed from his law firm.
Power had little interest in becoming a traditional costumed hero, but
it became readily apparent that he could not continue to practice law
without undue public attention.

Power Company

Working his way through a short depression and other problems, Josiah
eventually found a way to combine his old skills and newfound abilities.
He decided to found a business of superheroes for hire, structured
like a law firm, with partners and associates.

He called his new team, the POWER COMPANY. During his tenure in the
team, he was put into a coma from a gunshot wound and Firestorm became
an associate. He has since recovered and has continued active duty. He
rarely participates in the Company’s missions. He has made exceptions
but only when the situation was dire. Josiah lives with his life partner
Rupert.

Justice League

Josiah and the rest of the Power Company are injured during a battle
with Doctor Impossible and a group of villains using technology from New
Genesis. Josiah was found near death, but was saved by a timely
intervention from Mon-El. During a later discussion, Hal Jordan
worriedly remarks that if the villains were able to defeat someone as
powerful as Josiah, then the members of the Justice League are going to
have a big problem on their hands.


Powers and abilities

When he activates his powers Josiah transforms into a monstrous, grey,
stone-like seven foot giant, and an energy corona begins to spark about
his body. He gains great strength, invulnerability and possibly other
energy based powers. At one point, after seeing him in action,
Superman stated that Josiah was one of the most powerful metas he'd ever
met.

