JUDOMASTER is the name given to three fictional superheroes published by
. The first Judomaster debuted in Special War Series #4
(November 1965) published by Charlton Comics, and was created by Joe
Gill and Frank McLaughlin.


Fictional character biography

Hadley Jagger

Judomaster's secret identity was Hadley "Rip" Jagger, a sergeant in
World War II in the United States Army. He rescued the daughter of a
Pacific island chief and in return was taught the martial art of judo.
He had a kid sidekick named Tiger. In the Nightshade backup series in
Captain Atom, an adult Tiger was Nightshade's martial arts instructor.

[Judomaster #98, artist Frank McLaughlin] Judomaster's title lasted
from #89 to #98, from June, 1966 to December, 1967. (It was a retitling
of Gunmaster, which was itself a retitling of Six-Gun Heroes).

Along with most Charlton super hero characters, the rights to Judomaster
were sold to . In post-Crisis continuity, Judomaster was said
to be a member of the All-Star Squadron, 's team of superheroes during
World War II, although he has never appeared in an actual published
story as a member of said team. His kid sidekick, Tiger, would later
become the villain Avatar in the L.A.W. mini-series published by 
Comics, which re-teamed the Charlton characters that had been acquired
by . In the same series it is shown Judomaster has lived for some time
in the fictional city of Nanda Parbat. As time passes in a different
manner there, Judomaster has retained a younger form. Since the
mini-series, Judomaster has only appeared a few times.

Sometime in his life he had a son named Thomas Jagger.

Judomaster was killed when he took part in the giant battle of
Metropolis in Infinite Crisis #7, during which the supervillain Bane
broke his back.

Justice League Quarterly

[The second Judomaster. Art by Michael Collins.] A different Judomaster
was created by Paul Kupperberg and artist Michael Collins. In Justice
League Quarterly #14 (1994), Andreas Havoc, an enemy of Peter Cannon
(Thunderbolt) challenged Cannon to battle, feeling that his rightful
position as "Vajra" had been stolen by Cannon. The Blue Beetle (Ted
Kord), Captain Atom and Nightshade assisted Peter Cannon in battling
Havoc in a psychic battle while the new Judomaster helped rescue the
heroes in the physical world.

Due to the brief revival of Rip Jagger and Gail Simone's subsequent
creation of Sonia Sato, this Judomaster fell into comic book limbo.
However, he recently was depicted as attending a memorial service for
the citizens of Star City.

Sonia Sato

A female Judomaster, Sonia Sato, appears in Birds of Prey #100 (2007),
along with Big Barda and Manhunter who are all recruited by Oracle to
break into a Mexican prison. In keeping with the theme of the Birds of
Prey group, this Judomaster, unlike the others, is female.

In 2008, Sonia returned in Justice Society of America #11 the issue in
which her name, origin and powers were revealed. Sonia's metahuman
talent allows her to project an "aversion field" which prevents her from
being hit by attacks specifically aimed at her. This does not include
attacks that have no aim, such as random projectiles and explosions.
With the help of the JSA, she stops Yakuza assassins led by Tiger. In
her earlier Birds of Prey appearance, Sonia Sato is shown having an
above-average mastery of English, allowing her to communicate
effortlessy. During her JSA tenure she's shown as unable to speak
English, learning only with great difficulties to master a stilted,
somewhat impaired command on the language. She is shown in a
relationship with Damage, kissing him even after his temporarily healed
face was reverted to his heavily scarred one.

Blackest Night

Sonia's romance with Damage is ended when he is killed by the reanimated
Jean Loring during Blackest Night. Now part of Magog's All-Star JSA
squadron, Sonia assists her teammates in repelling the Black Lantern
invasion of Manhattan. Sonia and Damage's older brother Atom Smasher
search the city for survivors, only to stumble upon Damage, now a member
of the Black Lantern Corps, tearing the heart out of a police
officer.

After the end of the Blackest Night a greatly distraught and grieving
Judomaster plans to revert to her earlier plan of vengeance against
Tiger, her father's killer, feeling that without Damage's love she has
nothing else to anchor to a happier life. However, she's stopped by King
Chimera, who relays her the missing half of Damage's last message to
her, recorded before the Blackest Night, in which Grant shares with
Sonia his wish to have corrective surgery on his face and build a
simpler, happier life with her, wishing Sonia, in the event of his
death, a better life. Thus King Chimera is able to convince Sonia to
enact Grant's last wishes by leaving Tiger alive (albeit with a severe
beating). Furthermore, Sonia decides to improve her English (reasoning
that only Damage was kind enough to bear her stilted, slow grasp of
language), and after giving her lover a tearful eulogy, she begins to
finance several relief funds for the people Damage has unwillingly hurt
in the years, attempting to give him closure, using money she
"requisitioned" from Tiger before having him incarcerated 

The New 52

The most recent version of Sonia Sato appears in Earth 2 #9. Alongside
other parallel versions of former JSA members (namely Wesley Dodds
a.k.a. Sandman), a Major Sonia Sato of the World Army appears at the
home of Jay Garrick's mother in an attempt to apprehend Jay. She is seen
wearing a sigil designating her as a representative of the nation of
Japan.


Other versions

-   A female version was seen in Alex Ross and Mark Waid's comic
    Kingdom Come, as a member of Magog's Justice Battalion, along with
    the rest of the Charlton 'Action Heroes'. She was apparently killed
    with the other members when Captain Atom was killed.
-   In the final issue of 52, a new Multiverse is revealed, originally
    consisting of 52 identical realities. Among the parallel realities
    shown is one designated "Earth-4". As a result of Mister Mind
    "eating" aspects of this reality, it takes on visual aspects similar
    to the pre-Crisis Earth-4, including Judomaster and the other
    Charlton characters. The names of the characters are not mentioned
    in the panel in which they appear, the Judomaster is visually
    similar to the Rip Jagger Judomaster.

 Based on comments by Grant Morrison, this alternate universe is not the
pre-Crisis Earth-4.

