KAMANDI is an American comic book character, created by artist Jack
Kirby and published by . The bulk of Kamandi's appearances
occurred in the comic series KAMANDI: THE LAST BOY ON EARTH, which ran
from 1972 to 1978.

Kamandi is a young hero in an alternate post-apocalyptic future. After a
huge event called "The Great Disaster", humans have been reduced back to
savagery in a world ruled by intelligent, highly evolved animals.


Publication history

Creators

 editor Carmine Infantino had tried to acquire the license to publish
Planet of the Apes comic books. When this failed to happen, he asked
Jack Kirby for a series with a similar concept. Kirby had not seen the
films but he knew the rough outline and he had also created a very
similar story, "The Last Enemy!", in Harvey Comics' Alarming Tales
that predated the original Planet of the Apes novel. He also had an
unused comic strip he created in 1956, titled Kamandi of the Caves.
Kirby brought all those elements together to create Kamandi.
Although his initial plan was to not work on the comic books themselves,
the cancellation of Forever People freed him up to do so.

The series

The Kamandi series was launched in October–November 1972. It was
written and drawn by Jack Kirby through its 37th issue, in January 1976.
Kirby also drew issues #38 through #40, although they were scripted by
Gerry Conway. Kirby subsequently left , but the series continued,
initially written by Conway and drawn by Chic Stone. Later issues were
alternately written by Paul Levitz, Dennis O'Neil, David Anthony Kraft,
Elliot S. Maggin, and Jack C. Harris, with art by Pablo Marcos, Keith
Giffen, and Dick Ayers. It was canceled during the " Implosion" of
1978, despite respectable sales figures. The final published issue was
#59, cover-dated September–October 1978. Two additional issues,
completed but not released, were included in Cancelled Comic Cavalcade
#2.

Entering the  Universe

During Kirby's run on the book, Steve Sherman indicated in the letters
column that the series was connected to Kirby's contemporary OMAC
series, which was set sometime prior to the Great Disaster. The only
explicit connection to the  Universe occurs in issue #29, where
Kamandi discovers a group of apes who worship Superman's costume, and
who speak of legends of Superman trying and failing to stop the Great
Disaster. The story leaves it ambiguous whether the legends are true,
although Kamandi believes Superman was real, and whether the costume is
indeed Superman's.

Various non-Kirby stories tie the series more explicitly to the 
Universe. Kamandi met Batman in The Brave and the Bold #120 (July
1975) and #157 (December 1979). Superman #295 (January 1976)
establishes that the costume seen in issue #29 was indeed Superman's,
and that Earth A.D. is an alternate future for Earth-One, distinct from
that of the Legion of Super-Heroes. Issues #49-50 of the series
establish that Kamandi's grandfather was the elderly Buddy Blank, hero
of the OMAC series, and features a brief return of OMAC's satellite
ally, Brother Eye. Kirby's Kamandi story in Cancelled Comic
Cavalcade #2 guest stars The Sandman and establishes that Kamandi is
Jed Walker.

The 1975-1977 Hercules Unbound series and OMAC backup stories in
Kamandi and Warlord tie OMAC to both the storyline of Hercules
Unbound and to the Atomic Knights, indicating that the Great
Disaster was the atomic war of 1986 that precipitated the events of the
latter.  Presents #57 (May 1983) indicates that the events of
the Atomic Knights stories were a fantasy in the mind of Gardner
Grayle, but  Presents #64 and Crisis on Infinite
Earths #2 make clear that Kamandi still existed in an alternate
future of Earth-One.

In the wake of the Crisis on Infinite Earths, the Great Disaster did not
occur, and the boy who would have become Kamandi instead became Tommy
Tomorrow.

Revival

In the aftermath of the Infinite Crisis limited series, a bunker named
Command D has been built under the ruins of the city of Blüdhaven.

In early 2007,  Nation house ads showed a partial picture of Darkseid
and mention a "Great Disaster". Additional  promotional art for the
series Countdown show the Statue of Liberty in ruins, similar to
Kamandi #1. Dan DiDio later revealed that the Statue's appearance in
that teaser ad was a reference to the Sinestro Corps War. Throughout
2007,  contained continual references to a coming Great
Disaster. In Countdown #31, Buddy Blank and his unnamed blond grandson
are introduced into the storyline. As of Countdown #6, The Great
Disaster is in its early stages on Earth-51 due to the outbreak of a
virus, which is causing humans to develop animal-like features, and
animals to develop humanoid features. In Countdown #5, the virus
claims Earth-51's Buddy Blank's daughter, but his grandson is safe. Una,
an alternate Earth's version of the Legion of Super-Heroes Triplicate
Girl, gives him her Legion flight ring, which he uses to safely get him
to Cadmus' "Command D" facility, which was used to control Brother Eye,
and has the defenses necessary to protect them from the virus' victims.
As he settles in, he hopes that his grandson can forgive him for making
him "The last boy on Earth."

In Countdown: Arena #2, an ape Starman from Earth-17 mentions he is
attempting to form a truce between the forces of Kamandi and Ben Boxer,
indicating a second variant Kamandi Earth, unlike Earth-51.

Kamandi and The Demon appear in "Devil's Play" written by Joe Kubert and
Brandon Vietti with art by Vietti, published in Joe Kubert Presents #6
(May 2013).

Final Crisis

Kamandi is seen in 's Final Crisis limited series, a sequel to the
earlier Crisis on Infinite Earths and Infinite Crisis._ In the first
issue he appears in what seems to be a time distortion, asking Anthro,
the "first" boy on Earth, for the weapon the New God Metron gave him, a
reference to the series' opening scene in which Anthro, like Prometheus,
is given knowledge in the form of fire. He makes another appearance in
the second issue as one of the captives of the evil New Gods alongside
Batman, warning the detective character Dan Turpin that they are making
slaves of them. In the final issue, he appears on Earth-51 after it has
been reconstructed.


Fictional character biography

In the eponymous series, Kamandi is a teenage boy on a post-apocalyptic
Earth which the textual narrative describes as "Earth A.D. (After
Disaster)." The Earth has been ravaged by a mysterious calamity called
the Great Disaster. The precise nature of the Great Disaster is never
revealed in the original series, although it "had something to do with
radiation" (in the series' letter column, Jack Kirby and his
then-assistant Steve Sherman repeatedly asserted that the Great Disaster
was not a nuclear war, a fact confirmed in issue #35). The Disaster
wiped out human civilization and a substantial portion of the human
population. A few isolated pockets of humanity survived in underground
bunkers, while others quickly reverted to pre-technological savagery.

Shortly before the Great Disaster, a scientist at Walter Reed Army
Medical Center, Dr. Michael Grant, developed a drug called Cortexin,
which stimulated the reasoning abilities of animals. During the Great
Disaster, Grant released the experimental animals affected by the drug,
and dumped the Cortexin itself into the stream created by a broken water
main. In the ensuing days, animals escaping from the National Zoo drank
from that stream and became affected by the drug.

By Kamandi's time, an unspecified period after the Great Disaster, the
effects of Cortexin and the radiation unleashed by the Great Disaster
itself had caused a wide variety of animals (most of them are
descendants of escaped zoo animals following the disaster) including but
not limited to barracudas, bats, cheetahs, coyotes, crocodiles, dogs,
gophers, gorillas, kangaroos, leopards, lions, lizards, pumas, rats,
sloths, tigers, and wolves (with their appearance being different from
the werewolves), to become bipedal, humanoid, and sentient, possessing
the power of speech. Others animals ranging from dolphins, killer
whales, and snakes developed sentience, but retained more or less their
original size and form. The newly intelligent animal species, equipped
with weapons and technology salvaged from the ruins of human
civilization, began to struggle for territory. Horses were apparently
not affected, and serve as a means of transportation in the
technologically impoverished world of Earth A.D..

By this time, most surviving humans are acting bestial, with very
limited reasoning ability. Most have only the most rudimentary ability
to speak, although they can be trained. The precise cause of the loss of
reasoning ability is ambiguous in the original series. The animals treat
humans as beasts, using them for labor or as pets.

Kamandi is the last survivor of the human outpost in the "Command D"
bunker near what was once New York City. "Kamandi" is a corruption of
"Command D"; it is unclear if Kamandi ever had any other name. Raised by
his elderly grandfather, Kamandi has extensive knowledge of the
pre-Disaster world, thanks to a library of microfilm and old videos, but
he has spent most of his time inside the bunker, and is unaware of the
state of the world outside. When his grandfather is killed by a wolf,
Kamandi leaves the bunker in search of other human outposts.

He soon discovers that the only other intelligent humans left on Earth
are Ben Boxer and his friends Steve and Renzi, a trio of mutants
genetically engineered to survive in Earth A.D. He also makes a number
of animal friends including Dr. Canus, the canine scientist of Great
Caesar (leader of the Tiger Empire) and Caesar's teenage son Tuftan.
Later additions to the cast included the alien woman Pyra, the girl
Spirit and the consulting detective Mylock Bloodstalker and his
associate Doile. Even the most sympathetic animals however are
nonplussed by Kamandi and Ben's ability to speak.

Kamandi and his friends set out to explore the world of Earth A.D., in
hopes of one day restoring humanity to sentience and civilization.


Other versions

Elseworlds

The Elseworlds miniseries KAMANDI: AT EARTH'S END was issued in 1993,
but had little relation to the Kirby comic except by name. This series
was followed up by Superman: At Earth's End, both were written by Tom
Veitch.

Superman/Batman

In the third story arc of the Superman/Batman series, which showed the
heroes traveling through time, they met or fought with, variously, Sgt.
Rock, Jonah Hex, Darkseid, and Kamandi.

Superman & Batman: Generations

In Superman & Batman: Generations III #3 (May 2003), one of the
stories was set during the century immediately following the 'Great
Disaster' engineered by Luthor's robotized brain. It dealt with Superman
II, Batman, and other survivors of the technological age dealing with
Kamandi-like intelligent animals and overgrown ruins.

Wednesday Comics

Dave Gibbons and Ryan Sook produced a Kamandi serial for Wednesday
Comics in 2009. The stories for Wednesday Comics have their
own continuity.

The Multiversity

The sixth issue of "The Multiversity," titled the "Multiversity
Guidebook," features Kamandi on his version of Earth as one of the 52
Earths of the Multiverse. Kamandi is shown searching an ancient ruin in
this issue.


In other media

Television

-   An animated Kamandi TV series was optioned during the late 1970s,
    but cancelled before entering the production phase.
-   Kamandi and his supporting cast made four appearances in the
    animated series Batman: The Brave and the Bold voiced by Mikey
    Kelley. The first instance was as part of the teaser introduction to
    the episode "Dawn of the Deadman" where he, Dr. Canus, and Batman
    evade a group of Rat Men. His second appearance was in the
    full-length episode "Last Bat on Earth" where he teams up with
    Batman when Gorilla Grodd goes to Kamandi's time through Professor
    Carter Nichols's time machine and takes control of the
    gorillas there. In "The Malicious Mr. Mind," Kamandi assists Batman
    when the Misfit follows Kamandi to Batman's time. In "Joker: The
    Vile and the Villainous", Misfit and his robots attack Kamandi and
    the Tiger Men in order to claim a doomsday device that was in their
    possession that the Tiger Men were worshipping. When a time portal
    opens and it was first thought to be Batman coming to Kamandi's aid,
    it was actually Joker who came to Misfit's aid and they defeat
    Kamandi and the Tiger Men. Afterwards, Joker accidentally pushes a
    button on the doomsday device which blows up the Earth.

Toys

-   Kamandi was included in  Universe Classics Wave 14, released
    in 2010.

Miscellaneous

-   A  animated universe version of Kamandi appears in the comic book
    Justice League Adventures #30, and he is aided by the Flash.


Collected editions

-   ''Kamandi Archive:
    -   Volume 1 collects Kamandi: The Last Boy on Earth #1-10, 224
        pages, October 2005, ISBN 1-4012-0414-7
    -   Volume 2 collects Kamandi: The Last Boy on Earth #11-20, 228
        pages, February 2007, ISBN 1-4012-1208-5
-   Countdown Special: Kamandi, the Last Boy on Earth 80-Page Giant #1
    collects Kamandi: The Last Boy on Earth #1, #10 and #29.
-   Kamandi by Jack Kirby Omnibus
    -   Volume 1 collects Kamandi: The Last Boy on Earth #1-20, 448
        pages, September 2011, ISBN 1-4012-3233-7
    -   Volume 2 collects Kamandi: The Last Boy on Earth #21-40, 424
        pages, December 2012, ISBN 1401236723
-   Wednesday Comics collects Wednesday Comics #1-12, 200 pages,
    June 2010, ISBN 1401227473

