KATMA TUI is a comic book superhero, an extraterrestrial from the planet
Korugar, and a member of the intergalactic police force known as the
Green Lantern Corps. She first appeared in ' Green Lantern
(vol. 2) #30 (July 1964), and was created by writer John Broome and
artist Gil Kane.


Fictional character biography

Katma Tui hails from the planet Korugar, in the area of space designated
Sector 1417 by the Guardians of the Universe, the extraterrestrials from
the planet Oa who oversee and administer the Green Lantern Corps.
Korugar was also the home planet of the renegade former Green Lantern
Sinestro, who used his Green Lantern powers to enslave his planet, and
rule over them as a tyrant, unbeknownst to his Guardian superiors. Tui
eventually leads a rebellion against Sinestro, and even testifies
against him before the Guardians. Sinestro is imprisoned in the
antimatter universe, on the planet Qward. Green Lantern Tomar-Re
nominates Tui as Sinestro’s replacement as Green Lantern of Sector 1417,
and Tui accepts. The people of Korugar, however, came to view the Green
Lantern symbol as one of oppression and pain, and saw Tui as a monster
for joining them. Tui is now known among her people as “Katma Tui the
Lost”, as seen in Green Lantern Corps: Recharge #1 (November 2005).

In her first mission, which occurred during her probationary period as a
Lantern, Tui and Korugaran scientist Imi Kann destroy a giant space
amoeba creature that threatens Korugar. Tui and Kann fell in love, and
Tui decides to leave the Corps. Hal Jordan, the Green Lantern of Earth,
uses a ruse in order to persuade her not to.

Tui went on to become an exemplary Green Lantern on a number of
adventures, including a prison breakout on the Guardians’ prison planet,
her struggle against the telepathic influence of the alien Ffa’rzz the
Mocker and her kidnapping by a group of terrorists who mistook her for
Hal Jordan’s love Carol Ferris. She is involved in the war against
Krona, Nekron, the Weaponers of Qward, and the Anti-Green Lantern Corps.
Tui successfully recruits Rot Lop Fan who has no concept of 'color',
being sightless. Tui helps defeat the extra-dimensional entity known
as Maaldor, who had cut off the Lanterns from the Main Battery on Oa
that powered them. She is involved with the seminal event known as
Crisis on Infinite Earths and many subsequent conflicts with Sinestro.

Marriage

When Hal Jordan resigns from the Corps for Carol Ferris, Tui is
infuriated, given that Jordan had persuaded her to give up Imi Kann for
the Corps. When John Stewart initially turns down the offer of replacing
Jordan as Green Lantern of Earth, Tui, projecting her anger towards
Jordan upon Stewart, dismisses him as a coward, which provokes Stewart
into changing his mind. Tui would eventually train Stewart and work
closely with him on a number of missions. The two soon fall in love, and
with the blessings of the Guardians they marry. During the first Green
Lantern Corps story arc at the Citadel on Earth, Tui works with a
large contingent of Lanterns who find themselves based in California.
This grouping includes Kilowog, Ch'p and Arisia.

Death

Katma Tui is slain by the villain Star Sapphire. Katma, at the time
unpowered, is sliced to death while in her kitchen. Star Sapphire did
this simply to make a point to Hal Jordan.

During the Green Lantern: Mosaic series, John Stewart becomes involved
with a new society, various alien citizens placed together on one planet
by an ex-Guardian, who had gone insane from loneliness. His efforts
elevate him to become the first mortal Guardian of the Universe, known
as The Master Builder. As his reward for this new level of awareness,
John is reunited with his late wife, Katma Tui. However, tragedy strikes
once again and Hal Jordan, possessed by Parallax, destroys both the
Guardians and the Central Power Battery, robbing John of his newfound
powers and his resurrected wife.

The Blue Lantern Saint Walker uses his blue power ring to calm John
Stewart's rage from Red Lantern. By reading his psyche, the ring is able
to discern that creating an image of Katma Tui would best serve this
purpose. After being surrounded in an illusion of flying with his
late-wife for several moments, Stewart emerges with the belief that he
would be able to see Katma again.

In the Blackest Night crossover, black power rings are sent throughout
the universe reanimating the bodies of the deceased. Katma Tui's name is
among the first to be called out by a black ring, and she is shown
reanimated as a member of the Black Lantern Corps. Katma travels on
the planet Xanshi to see John and tries to weaken John by claiming that
he caused the planet's destruction. However, John, spurred on by Star
Sapphire Fatality's words, says that he was not the cause of it all and
successfully fights off the Black Lanterns. Black Lantern Katma is
then destroyed by the combined efforts of John and Fatality. The two
join their lights together to destroy the black ring, rendering Katma's
corpse inert.


Other versions

In the Batman: In Darkest Knight, she was part of the Lantern team
sent to restrain the Green Lantern Batman.


In other media

Television

[Katma Tui in the Justice League episode Hearts and Minds.]

-   Katma Tui has a brief, non-speaking appearance in the Superman
    episode "In Brightest Day".
-   Katma Tui appeared in the Justice League episode "Hearts and
    Minds", voiced by Kim Mai Guest. In the animated continuity, Katma
    seems to be the primary trainer of new Lantern recruits – taking the
    job over from the cartoon's version of Kilowog - and is portrayed as
    one of the more senior members of the Lanterns. John Stewart was
    among her students when he first joined the Corps. They fell in
    love, but were separated when their assigned sectors were too far
    away from each other. At the beginning of the episode, Katma is
    first seen leading a group of Lanterns in a losing battle with the
    forces of Despero, whose Py'tar energy seems to match and even
    exceed the Lantern energy. Katma seems to sacrifice herself so as to
    allow Kilowog to get away, which permits him to make it to Earth and
    tell John of her plight. Katma managed to survive and infiltrated
    Despero's ranks on his home planet Kalanor secretly funneling
    information to the resistance forces opposing him. John, in his
    search for Katma, ends up engaging and losing to Despero, which
    affects his ability to use his ring. Katma is forced to try to
    retrain him, an activity John took to very poorly. Angered by
    Katma's seemingly dispassionate treatment of John, Hawkgirl
    none-too-subtly implied that Katma's affair with John was her merely
    using him as a boytoy. When Despero was finally defeated, Katma
    offered John a place alongside her to help rebuild Kalanor, but John
    gently declined so as to remain a member of the League and fulfill
    his current assignment of patrolling Sector 2814.
-   Katma makes a non-speaking appearance in the Justice League
    Unlimited episode "The Return" with many other Green Lanterns who
    came to destroy Amazo for seemingly destroying Oa. Like most of the
    Lanterns in this episode, she sported a design change, purely for
    aesthetic purposes, according to the DVD commentary.
-   Another version of the character appeared in the Duck Dodgers
    episode "The Green Loontern" voiced by Tara Strong. She is a leader
    among the Corps members, but comes under the dubious impression that
    she needs Dodgers' assistance to save the day.
-   Katma Tui makes a cameo in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold
    episode "Day of the Dark Knight".

