KE'HAAN is a fictional character featured in comic books published by 
Comics. He is a very tall, well-muscled humanoid alien with
reddish-orange skin, a partially bald head and three brown locks down
the center of his head. Other distinguishing features include a pair of
bull-like horns. He first appeared in Green Lantern (vol. 3) #49
(February 1994): "Emerald Twilight Part Two: The Present"


Fictional character biography

History

Ke'Haan of Varva past was formerly the second in command to Green
Lantern trainer Kilowog. He was also the designated protector of sector
786. Together, he and Kilowog were the top trainers for newly appointed
Green Lantern Corps recruits. Over the course of his life, he was
regarded as the toughest teacher on Oa. However this tough training was
noted for producing some of the toughest Lanterns found in the corps.
When Sector 112 was without a Lantern, he took Kentor Omoto's daughter
Laira under his wing. Within her, he found a kindred spirit and she
became his prized pupil. Within the Corps, it became heavily implied
and whispered that he and Laira were more than teacher and pupil despite
the fact that he had a family on his native planet Indeed, they could
often be found together on most of their missions.

Emerald Twilght

When the entity known as Parallax corrupted fellow Green Lantern Hal
Jordan, the Guardians dispached Ke'Haan and Laira to stop him from
reaching Oa. The pair found themselves outmatched as Jordan, powered by
rage and psychosis, tore through them. Surprisingly, despite his
imposing figure, years of experience, and overwhelming strength, Ke'Haan
was the first to fall to Jordan, while his pupil Laira, while still
losing, fared much better in her attempts at stopping Jordan.

Return and death

Believed dead after his battle with Hal Jordan, Ke'Haan, along with
fellow GLs Graf Toren, Laira, Kreon, Boodikka, and Tomar-Tu, was
captured by the Manhunters and taken to the forbidden Sector 3601 to be
used as energy cells for the planet Biot.

During this time, he was succeeded as Green Lantern of his sector by
Turytt who was tasked to tell his wife and children of his demise.
Turytt also swore to kill the one responsible for Ke'Haan's apparent
death.

It is unknown how long they remained captive until Guy Gardner and Hal
Jordan, now free of the Parallax influence, discovered him and his
fellow Lanterns. He was freed from captivity by Jordan and waged all out
war on the Manhunters. After defeating the Manhunters, the LOST LANTERNS
turned their rage on Jordan, who they still believed to be their enemy.
They paused however when Jordan refused to fight back. Upon examining
their surroundings, they discovered Lanterns long thought dead.
Apparently the Manhunters had been abducting Lanterns for a long time.

The newly resurrected Lanterns would have been slain if not for quick
teamwork which lead to the destruction of Biot. When they returned to
Oa, they were given heroes' welcomes, and Ke'Haan resumed his duties as
Instructor to new Lanterns. He was also the one to warn Hal Jordan to
stay clear of the LOST LANTERNS, even though Jordan was the one that
rescued them. It is unknown how his successor and family have reacted to
his return.

When Parallax (Kyle Rayner) brought Hal Jordan to Qward, the entire
Sinestro Corps attacked him. Amon Sur told Hal it was ironic that he
was going to die despised and abandoned by the Corps. Ke'Haan then
arrived on the scene with his fellow Lost Lanterns, saving Hal and
stating "Despised? Yes. But never abandoned. The Corps don't abandon
their own." The group then went underground, with Ke'Haan taking
Boodikka, Laira, and Hannu to find Ion. Instead, they find the
Anti-Monitor, who kills Ke'Haan, searing the skin off his skeleton in a
single blast.

Blackest Night

Ke'Haan is one of the many fallen Lanterns to be risen from his grave on
Oa to become a Black Lantern. He is one of the many Black Lanterns
beginning a stand against the living Green Lanterns on Oa. During
the conflict, he manages to impale Guy Gardner through the leg. His
corpse is destroyed.

