RICHARD KENT SHAKESPEARE, occasionally codenamed IMPULSE, is a fictional
character in the  Universe. He became a member of the Legion of
Super-Heroes in the 30th century, during the "Five Years Later" era. In
current continuity, he is the Superman of the 31st century.


Fictional character biography

Original continuity

Richard Kent Shakespeare is a native of the planet Earth, reared in the
New Rochelle section of Metropolis. While attending medical school at
the University of Metropolis, he was stricken with a virus that left him
comatose. Legion of Super-Heroes member Brainiac 5 determined that the
virus had actually slowly substituted itself for all of the cells in
Kent's body (except his nerve cells), mimicking the functions of those
cells, and fundamentally improving him. Kent acquired strength, speed,
durability, and recuperative abilities far beyond that of a normal
human. During the five-year period following the Magic Wars, he was
inducted into the Legion under the codename Impulse. After the
Dominion covertly gained control of Earth's government and the Legion
disbanded, Kent fled the planet. He eventually became a paramedic on the
medical planet Quarantine. While there he also tended to Garridan Ranzz
(one of the twin sons of Lightning Lad and Saturn Girl), whom Darkseid
once kidnapped and transformed into the monstrous Validus.

Years later, when Reep Daggle (Chameleon Boy) and Rokk Krin (Cosmic Boy)
reformed the Legion, Kent joined them. He remained with the team until
he was de-aged into childhood by the time mistress Glorith. Soon
thereafter, this timeline was erased, and Legion continuity was
completely rebooted.

Post-Zero Hour

In the Post-Zero Hour version of the team Kent is shown to be a member
of the Legion Academy. The Legion was once again rebooted shortly after
Kent's appearance and he never got to become an actual Legionnaire in
this version.

Post-Infinite Crisis

No one named Kent Shakespeare appears in the "Threeboot" version of the
Legion. However, the events of the Infinite Crisis miniseries have
restored a close analogue of the Pre-Crisis Legion to continuity, as
seen in "The Lightning Saga" story arc in Justice League of America
and Justice Society of America, and in the "Superman and the Legion of
Super-Heroes" story arc in Action Comics. Kent was seen briefly when
multiple versions of the Legion battled Superboy-Prime, the Time Trapper
and the Legion of Super-Villains.

Subsequently, Shakespeare is revealed to be a member of the Superman
Dynasty in the 31st century, where he operates wearing a grey costume
similar to that of Conner Kent, the Kryptonian/Human hybrid clone who
fights crime in the 21st century as Superboy. Among Shakespeare's
associates are Brane Taylor and Laurel "Elna" Kent—the Batman and
Superwoman of that era—and Tom Wayne, the Robin from the Robin 3000
series.

