KID FLASH (IRIS WEST II) is a superheroine in the alternate future of
Kingdom Come in the  universe. She first appeared in
Kingdom Come #3 (July 1996).


Publication history

Iris West II/Kid Flash appears in issues 3 and 4 of the 1996 Kingdom
Come mini-series. She subsequently appears in the Kingdom Come
sequel, The Kingdom, starring in her own issue The Kingdom: Kid
Flash (February 1999). Characters similar to this one appear in The
Flash #143 (December 1998) and #146–149 (March–June 1999), as well as
The Titans #23–25 (January–March 2001); however, it is not clear if
they are the same character.


Fictional character biography

Kingdom Come

In the alternate future of the Kingdom Come series, Iris West II is
the daughter of Wally West (the first Kid Flash, third Flash) and Linda
Park, and the twin sister of Jai West. Both Iris and Jai inherited their
father's superspeed abilities, but only Iris chose to use her powers for
good, while Jai used his powers to become a slacker and has no interest
in the "family legacy". Iris is constantly bitter that her father, who
has almost completely given up his life to patrol Keystone City
non-stop, never makes time for her but does make time for Jai, and
considered him the potential successor to the Flash identity instead of
Iris, despite her becoming Kid Flash.

In the sequel The Kingdom, Iris is recruited by Rip Hunter (along with
several other heroes of her generation - Ibn al Xu'ffasch, Batman's son;
Nightstar, the daughter of Nightwing and Starfire; and Offspring, the
son of Plastic Man) to try to stop a madman named Gog from altering the
past, before discovering it to be unnecessary due to Hypertime.

In The Titans #23–25 she becomes a member of a group comprising the
children of the original five Titans: herself; Nightwing and Starfire's
daughter Nightstar; Donna Troy's son Darkstar; the Red Hood, Arsenal's
daughter; and Tula, Tempest's daughter. They return to the present in
various Hypertimelines to save the existence of Donna Troy.

 Universe

[Iris West as the new Impulse. art by Ethan van Sciver.] In Flash #225
(October 2005), Wally West's wife Linda gave birth to a daughter named
Iris. Initially, her only power is the ability to vibrate through
objects. In Flash #240 (May 2008) Iris appears to grow into a teenager
wearing a costume similar to her future counterpart. In issue 241, Iris
now wearing a "kid flash"-like costume displays superspeed and states
she may be faster than her father. However her joy is short-lived, as
she ages into adulthood after defeating Gorilla Grodd. In Flash #243,
Iris is returned to her original age, and her powers revert to molecular
acceleration.

More than Jai, Iris is a living conduit for the Speed Force, with
absolute mastery over it almost rivalling the one briefly gained by her
father during the Dark Flash Saga. Mind-controlled by Queen Bee, she
exhibited the power of forming "cocoons" of Speed Force, bubbles in
which she could control speed and time, freezing her targets or
hastening their metabolism to death. Moreover, she repaired the
weakening connection to the Speed Force that was crippling her father.
Badly traumatized by her ordeal, she refuses to give in to her powers
again.

Her resolution wanes with the return of the first Reverse Flash,
Professor Zoom, during the The Flash: Rebirth event. Since Jai's and
Iris' connection to the Speed Force is still precarious, the attempts of
Zoom to disrupt it force both kids to endure a large amount of crippling
pain, until Iris decides to take the bulk of the Speed Power connection,
freeing Jai but taking the pain for herself. At the last moment Jesse
Chambers, guided by the late Johnny Quick, uses the Speed Mantra to
save Iris' life, once again restoring her full potential.

Iris embraces her new role with childlike glee, choosing to take up the
mantle of Impulse, which Bart used before he joined the Teen Titans as
Kid Flash.

Impulse is later shown being recorded on Flyover, a social networking
feature devised to help villains stalk and kill teen superheroes.


Powers and abilities

Iris West II has the same abilities as her father Wally West:
superspeed, the ability to control and vibrate her molecules, and an
aura that protects her from friction at high velocities. Iris is
somewhat slower than her father because of her young age.

