KINETIX, (ZOË SAUGIN of the planet Aleph) is a fictional character, a
comic book superheroine in the  universe. The character is a
member of the Legion of Super-Heroes in the 30th century.


Fictional character biography

Zoe's mother Azra was a renowned archeologist who shuttled her and her
younger brother Thanot around the galaxy on her digs. One day, Azra
inhaled poisonous gas while on a dig, which started eating away at her
lungs. Feeling helpless as she watched her mother die, Zoe searched
through Azra's books and found a magical incantation using the Moon of
Kol, an artifact her mother had found. Apparently, the Moon could
transform a "drop of love into a wellspring of health" once in a
lifetime. Zoe managed to heal her mother, and thus began her lust for
power - but only to be used to help others and achieve
self-perfection. However, while her reasons were noble, Zoe's power
lust became obsessive.

Zoe spent the next few years searching for more sources of magic which
she could use. She found one while exploring caverns on Saturn's moon
Titan, where she found and absorbed an energy pool which unlocked her
telekinetic abilities. Zoe named herself "Kinetix", (as in
"telekinetics"), and joined the Legion of Super-Heroes as part of the
second set of draftees alongside Shrinking Violet, who later became her
best friend. Zoe would become a major asset to the Legion, being part
of the team chosen to pursue Tangleweb and helping delay the Composite
Man, allowing the team to regroup. She also developed a crush on
deputy leader Leviathan, who developed an even bigger one on her.

Zoe then continued to search for more power and located the Star of
Akkos, thinking it would increase her powers, along with Shrinking
Violet. The Star instead robbed Zoe of her powers. Zoe went on a
leave of absence to look for a way to restore her powers. She was
traveling through a stargate when rogue Daxamites destroyed her
destination stargate, leaving her stranded. Her life support was running
out when she was saved by the sorceress Mysa and brought to Zarrox, the
Sorcerer's World.

Mysa trained Zoe in the mystic arts and restored her telekinesis,
altering her appearance in the process; Zoe's skin became paler, with a
tattoo on her cheek, pointed elf-like ears, and a tail. Mysa sent Zoe
back to the Legion to find the Emerald Eye. Unbeknownst to Zoe, her best
friend Violet had already been possessed by the Eye.

When their mutual crush Leviathan sacrificed himself to save the team
from Doctor Regulus, Violet went berserk and revealed her possession by
the Emerald Eye and then possessed the Legion in order to find a way to
revive Leviathan. Zoe was in the Eye's thrall and tried to take the
Eye for herself, but was rejected by it and nearly killed.

Zoe, reeling from Leviathan's loss and Violet's possession, was
transported by Mysa back to Zarrox along with her family and some of her
teammates. Mysa was about to drain Zoe of her powers again to punish her
for not being able to find the Eye first, but Azra then revealed that
she had met Mysa before while she was near death, and had used a mystic
artifact to heal her. Azra was pregnant with Zoe at the time and the
artifact's energies forged a link between Zoe and Mysa, which allowed
Mysa to manipulate Zoe later in life, and also changed Zoe's genetic
structure, giving her an affinity for magic which enabled her to absorb
the energy pool on Titan. Azra shamed Mysa into admitting her debt, and
used the Star of Akkos to restore Zoe's powers and original
appearance. Kinetix went on to be instrumental in the defeat of
Mordru and freeing Violet from the Eye.

On a mission to explore a mysterious space-time anomaly, Zoe was so
enthralled by its power that she became almost catatonic. Her normally
bubbly, energetic personality became submerged, leaving her silent and
almost childlike. Concerned, Violet and Spark convinced teammate
Brainiac 5 to use the Anywhere Machine to convince Zoe to shut out the
awe she felt at the power and return to normal. Zoe was one of the
Legionnaires who were Blighted, or brainwashed and renengineered into
hunters and killers.  Several of her teammates were lost and the
Legion disbanded shortly thereafter trying to seal a spatial rift. After
the Legion disbanded, Kinetix joined the Science Police and was
stationed on Earth. 

When the "Terrorforms" changed the people of Earth, Zoe was among the
genetic few who became a Terrorform.  As a Terrorform, Zoe was
linked to the planetary biosphere and responsible, with her fellow
Terrorforms, for safeguarding and speeding up the evolutionary process
on Earth. Zoe was a unique Terrorform in that she still possessed a
shred of her old personality and memories, thanks to her background in
magic. Zoe rejoined the Legion after it was reformed and played a key
role in stopping Ra's al Ghul.  She was part of the team until the
Fatal 500 crisis, and was stuck in Limbo along with the rest of the
Legion.

Kinetix has not been shown to be a member of the current version of the
Legion, which has its own internal chronology and history separate from
previous versions.

The post-Zero Hour Legion later emerged from Limbo and joined the
fight against the reformed Legion of Super-Villains. Kinetix took on
Superboy-Prime and dropped her guard, unaware of his resistance to
magic. Superboy-Prime killed Kinetix with his heat vision and Mordru
absorbed her magics and memories.


Powers and abilities

Kinetix possessed telekinetic abilities, which she primarily used to
manipulate and reshape solid matter with her thoughts. As a Terrorform,
her abilities were undefined, partially as they are reactive to the
circumstances she is in. She has been shown to possess healing
abilities, flight, greatly enhanced strength, the ability to survive
unaided in space, and control of gravity. It was revealed in the Legion
of the Three Worlds mini-series that Kinetix had absorbed the magics of
the home universe of Earth-247 after its destruction, making her
stronger than ever.

