KOBALT is a fictional character, a comic book superhero published by
. He first appears in Kobalt #1 (June 1993), and was created
by John Rozum and Arvell Jones.


Publication history

Kobalt was somewhat a super-hero, but had built a ruthless and fierce
reputation. Some criminals even believed he was a cannibal. Kobalt
carries a vendetta against the St. Cloud organization. Kobalt's first
appearance was in Kobalt #1 as he harasses some of the employees of
St. Cloud. After the battle, Kobalt learns from another vigilante,
Clover, several of Cloud's men are manipulating his organization for
profit and other sinister purposes, without Cloud being aware of it.

Despite this, Kobalt refuses to team up with Clover. He insists on no
new partners ever and it is soon learned he had at least one before, who
had managed to set up a very illegal phone line that only a few know
about. One of these people is the father of Page, an inept superhero
groupie. Kobalt owes Page's father and he calls this in, wanting him to
train his son to be a genuine superhero.

Later, Page is videotaped battling the villain 'Slick' in an incident
involving a seemingly empty armored car. This is caught on video,
alerting the criminal underworld. Page's father sees the fight and
regrets his decision to allow Page to be a hero. St. Cloud himself
realizes Kobalt is real and not just an excuse his employees use to
cover their own incompetence. Kobalt himself believes that his
reputation as a demonic force is absolutely ruined. Increased resistance
in a later battle supports this theory in Kobalt's mind, but this train
of thought is interrupted by the appearance of Hardware.

Kobalt was of Cuban descent. Kobalt also appeared in Shadow Cabinet
#14 and Static Shock!: The Rebirth of the Cool #4.

It is currently unknown if Kobalt will make an appearance in the 
Universe after the two universes were combined together by Dharma.


Supporting characters

[Kobalt's sidekick Page, artist Jamal Igle]

-   CLOVER - on occasion she has assisted Kobalt and later became
    jealous of Page being Kobalt's new sidekick.
-   CHRIS DOONAN - a witness who Harvest tries to convince to talk.
-   DUDLEY - a St. Cloud snitch
-   HARVEST - a vigilante more of a psychopath than Kobalt, was angry
    about an attack on a school bus and asks Kobalt to help him
    track Mr. Glass. Later he kills some crooked cops and tries to
    convince a witness (Chris Doonan) to talk.
-   MR. GLASS - paid by Milton St. Cloud to kill Kobalt and attacked a
    school-bus of children.
-   PAGE - Kobalt's young protégé, Page's training began as Kobalt tries
    to break his spirit. Has a crush on a girl named Michelle.
-   PAGE'S FATHER - Page's Father called in a favor from Kobalt to train
    Page to be a hero.
-   RACHEL - Page's sister, she figured out that Page had become a
    vigilante.
-   ST. CLOUD - Was a member of the S.Y.S.T.E.M, in issue 9, St. Cloud
    is trying to frame Kobalt as a crook.

