The KRAKEN is a name given to several aquatic monsters inspired by the
legend of Kraken and several characters that have appeared primarily
in  and  publications.




Sea creatures

Three versions appeared during the Golden Age of Comic Books: the first
in Adventure Comics #56 (Nov. 1940), a second, land-based version
existing on the planet Venus in Flash Comics #81 (March 1947) and a
third variation capable of speech that claimed to be the actual Kraken
from ancient folklore who battled the hero Captain  in Whiz
Comics #155 (June 1953).

Two versions appeared during the Silver Age of Comic Books: a giant
octopus encountered by the Challengers of the Unknown in Showcase #12
(Jan.-Feb 1958), and the second being a giant squid summoned by the hero
Aquaman in Aquaman #34 (July-Aug. 1967). Wonder Woman #247 (Sept.
1978) and #289 (March 1982) featured additional versions, and in Wonder
Woman vol. 2 #75 (June 1993) the character encountered a version
complete with tiara in a dream dimension. In Aquaman #1,000,000 (Nov.
1998), the eponymous hero of the title encounters one of the "Krakens of
Vexjor", a race of huge tentacled reptilian sea monsters that inhabit
Earth's oceans in the 853rd Century. Wonder Woman and Aquaman also
encounter a young Kraken in Issue #1 (Aug. 2011, ) of the
limited series Flashpoint: Wonder Woman and the Furies._

 characters

SECRETS OF THE SINISTER HOUSE #13 (Sep. 1973) featured a vampire called
the Kraken who survives the nuclear annihilation of humanity only to be
trapped in a post-apocalyptic future with no human blood for
nourishment. Kraken was also the name of a crime syndicate that appeared
in The Brave and the Bold #138 (Nov. 1977). Two extraterrestrial
villains called Kraken have appeared, the first being an orange-skinned
minor villain in Supergirl vol. 2 #18 (April 1984) and the second an
ongoing character who debuted in Green Lantern vol. 4 #25 (Jan. 2008).

Minor characters include PRINCE KRAKEN, an Atlantean warrior,THE
KRAKEN BROTHERS (Hal Kraken and Kris Kraken), MR. KRAKEN, the
aide-de-camp of villainess Roulette and KING KRAKEN, a physically
powerful if deformed villain that has encountered Batman on several
occasions.




Sea creatures

The first Kraken made multiple appearances in  continuity,
including The Avengers #27 (April 1966, ), Tales to
Astonish #93 and Sub-Mariner #27 (July 1970), before returning
years later in the second issue of the limited series Fallen Son: The
Death of Captain America (#1 - 5, June-Aug. 2007)., and in The New
Invaders #4 from April 2014.

A Kraken appeared in the short story "When Strikes The Kraken!" in Kull
The Destroyer #17 (Oct. 1976), and was reprinted in Chronicles of
Kull 2: The Hell Beneath Atlantis and Other Stories. Another Kraken
(a gigantic squid) debuted in the black and white Bizarre Adventures
#26 (May 1981).

A creature called THE BLACK KRAKEN debuted in the short story "Red
Shadows and Black Kraken!" (based on the 1968 fantasy novel Conan of
the Isles written by L. Sprague de Camp and Lin Carter featuring Robert
E. Howard's hero Conan the Barbarian. The story is republished in the
graphic novel Conan of the Isles.) in Conan The Barbarian Annual
#7 (1982).

Another version of the Kraken (four-armed and reptilian in appearance)
debuted in  Presents #121 (Jan. 1993). It returned in
 Action Hour featuring the Fantastic Four #2-4 (Dec. 1994-Feb.
1995) and in the one shot title Namora #1 (Aug. 2010); it would later
be featured in the video game  Ultimate Alliance. A Kraken
(a horned squid creature) appeared in the 2009 one-shot comic
Sub-Mariner Comics: 70th Anniversary Special., while another (a
house sized crab/octopus hybrid) appeared in Fantomex Max issues #2
and #3. This Kraken was modified into a remote controlled cyborg to
protect an underwater base of a brilliant scientist.

Two additional versions possessed ties to Greek mythology. The first
served the Olympian Gods and debuted in the one shot Chaos War: God
Squad #1 (Feb. 2011) before returning in Incredible Hulk #622
(April 2011). The second Kraken appeared in the four-part limited
series Wolverine/Hercules: Myths, Monsters & Mutants. Spirited away by
the god Poseidon after a defeat by Greek hero Perseus, the creature is
revived in modern times by King Eurystheus to battle the heroes Hercules
and Wolverine.

 characters

Commander Kraken

A villain who adopted the name of Commander Kraken debuted in
Sub-Mariner #27 (July 1970) and battled several of 's heroes
before finally being killed by Scourge of the Underworld in Captain
America #319 (July 1986).

Daniel Whitehall

An elite assassin and member of the terrorist organization Hydra also
used the name and debuted in Secret Warriors #2, March 2009.
Writer/artist Jonathan Hickman stated in an interview with Comic Book
Resources that "Kraken" is a new character. The other Hydra character
with that name [Commander Kraken] was "a real b-list character and
pretty lame. Our Kraken... has a long and elaborate history and we're
going to be delving into that in a major way". Kraken is a legendary
Hydra agent, whose existence had been unverifiable, until recently. Any
S.H.I.E.L.D. agents that tried to find documented proof all disappeared.
The Kraken preferred to work behind the scenes, seeing it as his mission
to help people become what they are meant to be, usually with dangerous
results. For decades he was responsible for developing Hydra's best
assets, training their best talent. This involved a lot of human
trafficking, theft, and murder. He was the head of the school that
trained orphaned girls (including a young Viper) into human weapons. The
current Kraken is actually the second Kraken named Daniel Whitehall,
having stolen the original's identity by taking his equipment and
reading his journals.

Agent Kraken

The Ultimate  imprint title Ultimate X-Men featured an "Agent
Kraken", acting as a bodyguard to the President of the United
States.

Kraken artifact

In Captain America & Namor #635.1, "Kraken" is a name given to a
powerful mystical artifact created by an ancient Lemurian death cult. It
was a tentacled skull mask that embued its wearer with mystical powers.


Miscellaneous

A Kraken was featured in the story "The Kraken" in issue #49 of
Adventures into the Unknown by ACG in 1953.

Champion Comics #5 (March 1940, Harvey Comics), Monster Hunters #10
(Oct. 1977, Charlton Comics), Indiana Jones and the Sargasso Pirates
#2 (Jan. 1996, Dark Horse Comics), and the Japanese comic, One Piece
(ワンピース Wan Pīsu)_ #62 (November 15, 2010, Shueisha) all featured
versions of the Kraken.

Two one-shot publications featured characters bearing the name: a
villain called "Dr. Kraken" in WEB-MAN #1 (1993, Argosy Communications
Inc._) and a hero called Diego Hargreeves with the alias "Kraken" in
Umbrella Academy #1 (2007, Dark Horse Comics). 2000 AD #583, (July 1988,
Fleetway Publications) also featured the debut of a character called
Judge Kraken. In Japanese comics, a servant of Poseidon and one of the
main antagonists of the second saga of the Saint Seiya manga series. He
was called Kraken Isaac (クラーケンのアイザック, Kurāken no Aizakku) - a
former childhood friend and fellow saint trainee of main character
Cygnus Hyoga -, and debuted in volume 16, published in 1989 by Shueisha.

The web comic "Angry Faerie" (from July 13, 2012), featured a
bodybuilder type character called the Kraken.

A kraken (dispatched by the God Poseidon) appears in the Avatar Press
comic God is Dead #48.


In other media

-   The Daniel Whitehall version of Kraken appears in Season 2 of
    Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D._, portrayed by Reed Diamond. This version,
    originally having the name WERNER REINHARDT, was a member of Hydra
    in 1945 prior to being arrested by Peggy Carter and the Strategic
    Scientific Reserve. An elderly Reinhardt was freed from life
    imprisonment in 1989 by Hydra infiltrators within S.H.I.E.L.D. and
    encounters Jiaying (an Inhuman woman who remained looking young
    after their first encounter during World War II). He dissects her to
    discover the secret of her abilities, resulting in her supposed
    death, but also in Reinhardt's de-aging back to his World War
    II appearance. What he didn't know is that Jiaying was married to
    Calvin Zabo. In the present, he started calling himself Daniel
    Whitehall and acted as Hydra's North American leader following their
    emergence from hiding, and leads the effort to acquire a Kree
    artifact called "the Diviner" that turned out to be a
    terrigen crystal. He frequently clashed with the
    reconstituted S.H.I.E.L.D. led by Phil Coulson and was later killed
    by Coulson, depriving Calvin of his revenge. In the Season 3 episode
    "Paradise Lost", Whitehall appears in a flashback where he confers
    with a young Gideon Malick and his brother Nathaniel following the
    funeral of their father.
-   The sea creature version of Kraken appears in : Ultimate
    Alliance. It was shown locked in a pit until Loki (who was posing
    as Mandarin) released it to attack the heroes.
-   in Beware the Batman's second season King Kraken was slated
    to appear.

