KREON is a fictional character featured in comic books published by 
Comics. He is a Green Lantern from the world of Tebis. Physically, he is
a tall, well-muscled humanoid alien with orange-tinted skin and blonde
hair. Other distinguishing characteristics are golden prosthetics in
place of his right hand and left eye. He first appeared in Green
Lantern (vol. 3) #22 (March 1992).


Fictional character biography

Early history

A warlord, General Kreon sought to end wars in Tebis rather than start
them. He had seen the horrors of war and indeed had lost an eye and an
arm in his service to the military.

His beliefs about war were in complete contrast to that of his race: the
Chietain, a militaristic warrior race. His race glorified war and the
domination of other races. Their race was also far more advanced than
earth in terms of technology. They had used advanced space travelling
ships to invade Space Sector 3319. They saw this as necessary; their
stronghold on the Sector 3316 planet Hwagaagaa had been lost due to a
rebellion led by a Green Lantern.

Seeking to end his race's bloodlust and to end the wars for good, he
bought Star Sapphire from a local thug called Flicker. However she could
not be controlled and soon slaughtered over a dozen men before she was
subdued. While his fellow chieftains demanded he kill her, Flicker
suggested there was a way to control her. Taking his advice, he tried to
get her old lover Green Lantern Hal Jordan and his fellow Lanterns from
the dealer. With the promise of ending the long-standing war, he
mistakenly trusted Flicker, but neither the Lanterns nor Star Saphire
could be contained, and it led to even more bloodshed.

Shunned by his fellow Chieftains because of his lack of strength and the
destruction his failed plan had wrought, he caught the eye of Hal
Jordan. Impressed and seeing his potential, Hal Jordan recruited Kreon
for the Green Lantern Corps.

Green Lantern of Sector 2002

When Hal introduced Kreon to the Corps he was taken in by Kilowog who
trained him along with his fellow Lanterns. Kilowog was known as the
more level headed of the trainers. Unlike Ke'Haan, Kilowog often told
the rookies stories of past Lanterns to show them they were a part of a
proud and historic group. Among his fellow rookies, Kreon had a
particular dislike for Boodikka, who he saw as barbaric and lacking in
discipline. This led to the many problems, as they were paired together
to defend Oa. Still, both became renowned. As sides were being taken
among fellow Lanterns, and smaller groups began to be established, they
were paired together once again. Their disagreements with each other
eventually endangered the protection of the guardians. This became even
more apparent during the Qwardian invasion.

Kilowog was worried about this problem between two of his most respected
students. He feared that it could lead to a breakdown of teamwork among
his other students. Thus, he called John Stewart to give them a 'pep
talk' on tolerance. While the two could not be taught to like each other
by Gardner, he instead decided to use his Power Ring's telepathy to have
them confront their fears. It was at this point that Kreon made poignant
revelation. The Chieftains appear to consider females incapable of
learning the discipline necessary for military duty. Then, the psychic
projection of Kreon's worst fear appeared, in the form of a demonic
female. In turn, His teammate Boodikka was fighting a psychic construct
representative of her fear: being controlled. While she belittled Kreon
for his inability to defeat his opponent, she herself could not best
hers. Realizing that they finally needed each other, they switched
opponents and arose victorious. Having learned much about each other,
they understood Gardner's 'trial' and broke off from the rest of the
trainees for some privacy.

The two would work together again on many missions, including against
the incarnation of Entropy on Oa. They would also fight together
against the Triarch, Darkstars and L.E.G.I.O.N. on the planet Malus
to help his friend, none other than Hal Jordan.

Emerald Twilight and death

Kreon was now renowned among the Green Lantern Corps. At one point, he
was described as one of the greatest and most decisive war leaders in
the universe. His signature trait as a Green Lantern was that his ring
never showed a beam; his constructs were simply "on" and "off",
suggesting that his mind apparently moved quite fast.

He was a fierce warrior, despite missing a hand and an eye. One day,
Kreon was called to Oa to defend the planet from Hal Jordan. He was
defeated in a brutal battle with Jordan and left for dead.

Recently he was discovered by Jordan and Guy Gardner to be held captive
by the Manhunters, along with the other LOST LANTERNS. The other
Lost Lanterns included Arisia, Boodikka, Laira, Graf Toren, Ke'Haan,
Hannu, Jack T. Chance and Tomar-Tu, who had all recently escaped to kill
Jordan in revenge for his rampage. Among his fellow captives was his
longtime rival/partner Boodikka as well. When his fellow Lanterns are
about to kill Jordan, his is the voice of reason who stayed their hand.
He is slain fighting the forces of the ancient enemies of the Green
Lanterns, the Manhunters. He dies in Boodikka's arms. His ring, upon
his death, chose her as his successor.

Blackest Night

Kreon is one of the many fallen Lanterns to be risen from his grave on
Oa to become a Black Lanterns. He is one of the many Black Lanterns
beginning a stand against the living Green Lanterns on Oa.

