KYLE RAYNER is a fictional comic book superhero appearing in books
published by , usually in those starring the Green Lantern
Corps, an extraterrestrial police force of which Rayner was a member.
Created by writer Ron Marz and artist Darryl Banks, Rayner first
appeared in Green Lantern vol. 3, #48 (1994), as part of the "Emerald
Twilight" storyline, in which  replaced Green Lantern Hal
Jordan with Rayner, who was the sole Green Lantern for years until the
late 1990s. He was 's star Green Lantern into the mid-2000s. During
this period he was also briefly known as ION.

Following Jordan’s return to Green Lantern status in the 2004–2005
limited series Green Lantern: Rebirth, and the 2005 crossover event
"Infinite Crisis", Rayner returned to his alias of Ion. After the events
of the "Sinestro Corps War", Rayner returned to his original role as a
Green Lantern officer, along with a promotion to Honor Guard Illustres
of the Corps. Later on he becomes a White Lantern following the mastery
of all seven lantern rings.

In 2013, Kyle Rayner placed 14th on IGN's Top 25 Heroes of .


Fictional character biography

The last Green Lantern

[200 px|left|Kyle Rayner's debut as Green Lantern. Cover of Green
Lantern vol. 3 #51 (March 1994). Art by Darryl Banks.]

Before he acquired a Green Lantern power ring, Kyle Rayner was a
struggling-but-gifted freelance graphic artist who was raised in North
Hollywood and lived and worked in Los Angeles. Kyle was raised by his
mother as an only child; his father abandoned his mother when she was
pregnant. It was later revealed that his father was a Mexican-American
CIA agent named Gabriel Vasquez and that Aaron Rayner was merely an
alias. Kyle and his mother lived a very modest lifestyle until he
reached adulthood. After Hal Jordan, grief-stricken over the destruction
of his home town of Coast City, went on a mad rampage killing various
members of the Green Lantern Corps and the Guardians of the Universe,
Rayner was found by the last surviving Guardian of the Universe,
Ganthet. Ganthet gave Kyle the last working Green Lantern power ring
that would allow him to conjure any form of matter or energy through
sheer force of will. Ganthet's reasons for choosing Kyle to bear the
ring have never been made completely apparent, aside from Rayner having
been in the right place at the right time: prior to bequeathing the ring
upon Rayner, Ganthet simply utters, "You will have to do." Ganthet later
revealed that humans make great Green Lanterns (before Hal Jordan's
mental breakdown he was the Corps' greatest Green Lantern, and John
Stewart became the first mortal Guardian of the Universe). Several
sources, however, imply that Ganthet was following a deeper reason: Kyle
Rayner was not chosen because he was fearless but because he was able to
feel and overcome fear, thus making him, and all the future
Lanterns, less susceptible to Parallax's influence. The New Guardians
retelling goes so far as to replace the scowling "You will have to do"
with a smiling "It would seem I chose well."

At first Kyle took possession of the ring very lightly. His girlfriend,
Alexandra DeWitt, encouraged him to be more responsible, create his own
version of the Green Lantern uniform, and helped him train for his new
role as a superhero, but she was later murdered and stuffed in a
refrigerator by the supervillain Major Force. The guilt over this
event drove Rayner to take his role more seriously, and as a result he
strove to be the best Green Lantern he could be in honoring of Alex's
memory. Rayner then moved to New York City since Los Angeles reminded
him of Alex and he needed a fresh start.

Rayner grew up enamored with Superman and Batman, though he had only a
passing knowledge of Earth's various Green Lanterns. This soon changed,
and he found that the Green Lantern ring was the ultimate expression of
his fertile imagination. While in battle, he often used the ring's power
to create constructs of just about anything his artistic mind could
imagine: other superheroes, anime characters, mystical characters,
mechas, futuristic weapons, and original characters from his comic
books. While other members of the Green Lantern Corps questioned the
practicality of those constructs, they often made Rayner an
unpredictable and formidable opponent.

Justice League

After relocating to New York City, Rayner joined the superhero group the
Titans for a brief time, during which he dated Donna Troy, but
eventually became a member of the Justice League (JLA). He initially
clashed with the Flash (Wally West) early in his career. West had worked
with Jordan since childhood and had reservations about Kyle as the new
Green Lantern, but he eventually became one of Rayner's best friends and
biggest supporters. Surprisingly, another of Kyle's biggest supporters
amongst the League was Batman, who often treated him with more respect
than he showed certain other League members (including his predecessors
as Green Lantern—Jordan, Gardner, and Stewart), most likely due to the
fact that Kyle was willing to learn from others where other Lanterns
focused on their rings and pre-existing skills. Rayner also entered a
romantic relationship with Jade and formed friendships with the Golden
Age Green Lantern (Jade's father, Alan Scott), Green Arrow (Connor
Hawke), Arsenal (Roy Harper), Warrior (Guy Gardner), and John Stewart
(who at the time was a former Green Lantern).

During his superhero career Rayner accumulated a rogues gallery that
included characters from his predecessors' pasts such as Dr. Polaris and
Dr. Light.

Oblivion

[Oblivion, the sinister embodiment of Rayner's dark psyche. From Green
Lantern: Circle of Fire #2 (October 2000). Art by Robert Teranishi.]
During the Fifth-week event "Circle of Fire", it is discovered that a
cosmic entity named Oblivion is coming to Earth after he attacked the
planet Rann. This shocked Rayner because the villain is strikingly
identical to the character of a story Rayner made when he was seven
during his period of struggling with his fear and anger of growing up
without a father, as a nemesis to the adventurer the Cannoneer. The
Justice League tries to stop Oblivion, and during the battle, Kyle is
sent back to Earth to get reinforcements, but the League is captured. On
Earth, Kyle recruits Power Girl, the Atom, Firestorm, Adam Strange, and
the Circle of Fire — a group of Green Lanterns from alternate realities
and different time periods. The Circle of Fire consists of Rayner's late
girlfriend Alexandra DeWitt from an alternate timeline (where she had
received the power ring instead of Rayner); HUNTER AND FOREST RAYNER,
cousins descended from Rayner who share one power ring; ALI RAYNER-WEST,
Green Lightning, a future descendant of Wally West and Kyle Rayner who
possesses both the Flash and Green Lantern's powers but could only use
one of those powers at a time; a reprogrammed Manhunter robot model
G.L.7177.6; and PEL TAVIN, the Emerald Knight, a Daxamite Green Lantern
from the Middle Ages.

Finding himself in a role as a leader, Rayner split this group up to
handle different crises caused by Oblivion, or in some cases to search
for a way to defeat him. Eventually, in a confrontation, Oblivion
reveals that he is a distillation of Rayner's doubts and darker
impulses, made manifest through the power of the ring. The villain also
reveals that Rayner has subconsciously created the Circle of Fire based
on his positive aspects because he needed help; Alex is an embodiment of
Rayner's capability for love, while Tavin represents his bravery, Ali
represents hope, G.L.7177.6 represents logic, and Hunter and Forest
represent his imagination. When they realize this, they decide that the
created Green Lanterns should return to Rayner's mind. Doing so allows
him to unlock more powers from the ring that had been previously
unavailable to him and also discovers an inner strength he never knew he
possesses after his positive aspects return to him. Facing up to this,
Rayner is able to defeat Oblivion in New York City, imprison the entity
within his own mind, and free the Justice League.

Ion

[Kyle Rayner as Ion, from Green Lantern (vol. 3) #145 (February 2002).
Art by Dale Eagelsham.] For a brief period, Rayner achieved godhood as
Ion after absorbing the energy Hal Jordan had left in Earth's Sun
during "The Final Night" storyline, which had merged and grown with
energies released after Oblivion's defeat. With his new powers, Rayner
could bend time, space and reality, allowing himself, for example, to be
in many places at once. The drawback of being one with everything was
that Rayner could no longer sleep or separate himself from the
overwhelming responsibilities these abilities imposed upon him. Rather
than sacrifice his humanity, Rayner abandoned omnipotence, bleeding off
the vast power, recharging the Central Power Battery on the Guardians'
home planet and headquarters, Oa, and helping to create a new group of
Guardians in the process. Before he purged all of the power,
though, he modified his ring and conjured a new Corps uniform to reflect
his new maturity. Once again limited only by his willpower and
imagination, Rayner's ring could still affect yellow and would always
harbor a lifeline of power without a time limit on its power, is keyed
directly to him, and would always return to him, though it still
required charging to reach full power.

After the brutal gay bashing of his young assistant and friend Terry
Berg, Rayner went on a lengthy self-imposed exile into space. Before
leaving, he placed John Stewart, recently recovered from his paraplegia
and given a new power ring, into his spot in the Justice League. On his
return, he discovered that Jade had begun seeing someone new and was
doing so in his own apartment. He left New York and spent some time
trying once again to find his place on Earth and ended up staying with
his mother for a brief time.

Green Lantern: Rebirth

After being tricked into believing his mother had been murdered by Major
Force, Rayner fights with the villain, eventually dealing with the
immortal by decapitating him and shooting his head into space.
Feeling that he is a danger to those he cares for, Rayner once again
leaves for the far reaches of space. During the events of the miniseries
Green Lantern: Rebirth, he returns with Jordan's corpse and the
discovery of the true nature of Parallax, which is revealed to actually
be an alien parasitic entity, the non-corporeal embodiment of fear, that
possessed Jordan and committed crimes in his name. Subsequent to this,
Rayner is given special status amongst the Guardians, who consider him
the "Torch-Bearer", the Green Lantern who carried the legacy through the
Corps' darkest period.

Infinite Crisis and the Return of Ion

In Infinite Crisis, Alexander Luthor reveals that had the Multiverse
continued to exist if the event of Crisis on Infinite Earths hadn't
occurred, Rayner would have been a native of Earth-Eight. When Jade
dies during the Infinite Crisis Rann/Thanagar War Special, she transfers
her power to Rayner, catalyzing his transformation into Ion.

In the series Ion: Guardian of the Universe, Ion seemingly destroys a
fleet of starships and violently attacks two Green Lanterns, but Kyle
has no memory of the destruction and only learns of his possible role in
it after being attacked by a bounty hunter. Upon visiting the fleet's
wreckage, Rayner loses control and finds himself near the sentient
planet Mogo, also a Green Lantern, who uses his Lantern abilities to
help convalescing Lanterns gain insight into their problems through the
use of constructs conjured by the Lantern's own subconscious. On Mogo,
Rayner converses with images of Alex, Donna, and Jade and fights Major
Force. Rayner realizes that as Ion, he is able to channel the green
energy of both the Starheart and the Central Power Battery. This new
energy is called the "Ion Power".

Later, Jordan finds Ion destroying a planet but discovers that this is
in fact Alexander Nero, who claims that his connection with Kyle and new
powers are the result of a third party's interference. Jordan and Rayner
then discover that the Guardians had placed Rayner through these events
as a test of whether he could handle his power, in anticipation of their
granting him an honored position among Green Lanterns as their
Torchbearer, now that he harbors the ability to revive the Corps should
it ever be destroyed again. They explain that he will not patrol a
sector as other Lanterns do but will be called upon for aid in
situations that the Corps cannot handle alone. They also reveal that
some unforeseen enemy manipulated Nero, who unleashes a massive amount
of energy that Kyle dissipates into what is presumed to be a pocket
universe. Rayner later learns that he was hunted by enemies such as
Effigy, who was subliminally instructed to attack Rayner by Nero.
After clearing his reputation on the planet that was scorched by Nero
while using Rayner's identity, Rayner learns his mother is dying of an
unknown cause. After being attacked by the Tangent Comics version of the
Atom and the Flash, and being transported to the interdimensional realm
known as the "Bleed", where he encounters Captain Atom, he returns home
to attempt to reanimate his now-dead mother's corpse with newly acquired
powers, but after a tearful farewell, she declines resurrection, asking
Rayner to allow her to die, a request that the grief-stricken Rayner
grants.

"Sinestro Corps War"

Sinestro abducts Rayner from Oa through one of his new yellow power
rings. At the Sinestro Corps' base on Qward, he reveals to Kyle that he
was responsible for his mother's death and infected her with the
sentient virus Despotellis to kill her in a plot to break Rayner's will
so that he could serve as Parallax's new host. Sinestro also reveals
that Ion is actually a benevolent energy entity, similar to Parallax,
that thrives on willpower and that Rayner was unknowingly its current
host.

The Sinestro Corps confront Kyle, who has his powers drained out of him
by Sinestro himself, and is immediately taken over by Parallax. Parallax
then clothes itself in a new uniform, which appears as a combination of
the Sinestro Corps' uniform, Kyle's original Green Lantern costume, and
the armor Hal Jordan wore as Parallax. Parallax's possession also turns
the hair on top of Kyle's head gray, just as it turned the hair on Hal
Jordan's temples. Parallax returns to Qward with the Sinestro Corps and
is inducted into their ranks, becoming one of the Anti-Monitor's
heralds.

In Kyle's body, Parallax captured Hal Jordan, Guy Gardner, and John
Stewart and brought them to Qward. Before bringing them, Parallax made
Hal relive the only time he ever experienced fear: when his father died.
Parallax also elaborated that since invading Kyle's mind, he now has
nearly infinite creativity to call upon in his deeds. During the
battle with the Green Lantern Corps, who arrive to Qward to rescue the
captured Lanterns, Parallax murders Jack T. Chance and crushes his Power
Ring before it can find a replacement. During his fight with the
Earth Green Lanterns, Parallax revealed that Kyle Rayner's "twisted
desire" was to be the last Green Lantern again and thus "special". He is
stopped from murdering Guy Gardner by the intervention of the surviving
Lost Lanterns and the Ion entity. The Embodiment of Fear then led an
advance group of the Sinestro Corps, readying to attack Coast City. It
is also suggested by the Guardians of the Universe that Kyle is no
longer destined to be Ion following his being taken over by
Parallax.

As seen in the one shot Parallax (September 2007) Kyle was trapped
within his own mind. He is able to witness all that Parallax says and
does from a third person perspective but is unable to stop it. Kyle's
personality watches Parallax's actions from inside the prison that his
own imagination has constructed: his mother's empty house. The only
fixture in the house is an old painting of uncertain origin and
authorship that had belonged to Kyle's mother. As Kyle watches Parallax
battle Hal Jordan and the Lost Lanterns a manifestation of the fear
entity comes to pay him a visit. In the realm of his imagination Kyle is
able to "transform" into Ion and engage the parasite in battle. After
being blasted back by Parallax and losing his Ion form, Kyle forms a
power ring, places it on his finger, and appears in his original
costume. Although he puts up a valiant fight, Parallax is too much for
him, and Kyle is defeated. Parallax taunts Kyle with his deepest fear:
failing the people who depend on him, especially the women in his life.
Many of the women in Kyle's life have died or come to harm because of
their association with him, and this causes Kyle to struggle with
feelings of guilt and responsibility. The latest to die was Kyle's
mother, killed by the sentient virus Despotellis on the orders of
Sinestro. It was the grief and guilt that this revelation caused Kyle
that allowed the Parallax entity to possess him. Sneering, Parallax
mocks Kyle's helplessness and turns to depart, but the enraged artist
grabs a pencil and stabs the creature in the eye with it. Parallax,
unfazed and unhurt, taunts Kyle once more with the hopelessness of his
position and disappears. Left alone, Kyle is about to smash the painting
in frustration when he notices his mother's signature in the bottom
corner and realizes that she secretly painted it years ago. This deep
and unexpected connection with his mother gives Kyle hope, the very
thing he most needs to overcome his fear. With renewed faith in himself,
Kyle walks into the painting and ends up in a field walking toward a
bright, green star.

Green Lantern again

After threatening Hal's brother and family in Coast City, Parallax is
confronted by Hal Jordan, who is enraged by the entity's attempt to take
James Jordan's life as well as possession of Kyle. Surprisingly, Jordan
actually manages to beat Parallax consistently in fury but loses the
charge in his ring before he's able to defeat him completely. While
visibly weakened, Jordan becomes absorbed by Parallax in addition to
Rayner, and Parallax takes a new physical form with a bright yellow
costume, a sign that he is a creature capable of inducing great fear.

Meanwhile, fellow Lantern John Stewart orders Honor Guard Lantern Guy
Gardner to retrieve the painting (Kyle had discussed the painting in the
Sinestro Corps Special, as well as the Tales of the Sinestro Corps:
Parallax one-shot) of a little boy in a field, which was hanging in
Kyle's dead mother's house. As Guy returns and shows the painting to
Parallax, it visibly shifts his demeanor. Jordan, the beacon of green
light that had come to Kyle inside his mind, assists Rayner in fighting
Parallax exhaustively until they finally break free from the fear
embodiment's grip.

Just as the now-separated Parallax creature counterattacks the Lanterns,
ousted Guardians Ganthet and Sayd arrive with four Lantern Power
Batteries, and they proceed to entrap Parallax within them all. Ganthet
explains that his final act as a Guardian is to give Rayner his power
ring. The Guardian asks Rayner if he is willing to downgrade himself to
a regulation Green Lantern after serving as host to Ion for so long.
Kyle quickly agrees, and the four officers then take their batteries,
recite the oath, and recharge their rings.

The four Green Lanterns then split in two directions; Hal returns to
Coast City in order prevent it from being destroyed again with Kyle by
his side, and John and Guy head to New York City to battle the
Anti-Monitor, Superboy-Prime, and the Cyborg Superman. As Hal and Kyle
battle Sinestro, Sinestro momentarily gains the upperhand after one of
the Manhunters absorbs their power ring's energies. After the Green
Lantern Corps defeat the Cyborg Superman, the Manhunters immediately
deactivate, with Hal able to take one of the robots' skulls to absorbs
Sinestro's power. With three of them powerless, Hal and Kyle immediately
engage Sinestro in combat, with the two Lanterns emerging as the victors
against the despotic Korugarian.

After the war he is assigned to the Honor Guard as Guy Gardner's partner
and sent to counsel Sodam Yat, the new Ion. Kyle and Guy decide to
move to Oa, giving them better access to performing their duties. Kyle
places his mother's painting on the wall of his new Oan apartment.
The Ion is now stated as unrelated to the Starheart Power given to him
by Jade: Such sudden spike in powers enabled the Guardians to
temporarily bond the Ion entity with Kyle. With the loss of the Ion
entity, Rayner again has the powers and abilities of a standard Green
Lantern.

Since his promotion to Honor Guard, Rayner has acted as a troubleshooter
for the Corps, participating in actions such as the defeat of Sinestro
Corps member Mongul and the capture of Sinestro Corps member Krybb.
Following this, Rayner and Lantern Soranik Natu began a romantic
relationship.

Countdown and beyond

[Rayner as he appears after the Sinestro Corps War and during Countdown
to Final Crisis. Art by Talent Caldwell and J.D.Smith.] In Countdown,
Weeks 49-47, Kyle Rayner is among those "anomalies" listed by the
Monitors as being dangerous to the Universe, so he is on their list for
termination. Also on the list are Duela Dent, Donna Troy, and Jason
Todd.

Rayner briefly appears in All-New Atom #15, once again carrying a
Green Lantern ring (through his narration, Rayner makes it clear that he
is no longer Ion, stating that he "[has] to change [his] business
cards"). He now joins Donna Troy, Jason Todd, Bob the Monitor, and the
Jokester in the Countdown Presents the Search for Ray Palmer. This
story takes place after the events of the "Sinestro Corps War", though
it was started while the war was still ongoing in the Green Lantern
and Green Lantern Corps series. Rayner's new uniform is an
amalgamation of his previous Lantern uniforms and elements of the
traditional version, as well as his original mask.

When the challengers finally locate Ray Palmer (on Earth-51) Bob attacks
him, revealing his acts of assistance to be a ruse. Kyle escapes
with Ray, who reveals that it was the deceased Earth-51 Ray Palmer who
was meant to stop the great disaster, not him. The two are then attacked
by Power Ring and evil versions of Booster Gold and Supergirl.
While the battle between Monarch and Superboy-Prime rages, the hand of
the Source urges the Challengers to go to Apokolips. With the help of
Earth-51's Monitor, Nix Uotan, the group manages to leave before
Superboy-Prime tears open Monarch's armor, obliterating that entire
universe.

After Darkseid's defeat, Rayner joins Donna, Ray, and Forager in
becoming border guards to the Multiverse.

"Blackest Night"

Continuing his duties as a Green Lantern Honor Guard member, Rayner
moved to Oa, running a new version of the Warriors Bar with Guy Gardner
and continuing his relationship with Soranik Natu, secretly breaking one
of the ten new laws in the book of Oa unveiled by the Guardians: No
relationships between Green Lanterns. He had been involved in
the lead-up to "The Blackest Night", being one of the first to deal with
a new Star Sapphires member, and fought on Oa after the Guardian Scar
caused a mass prison break of Sinestro Corpsmen.

After the prison break, the Alpha Lanterns were ordered by the Guardians
to execute all Sinestro Corps members and all other prisoners. Rayner
and Guy opposed this, cautioning the Alphas and the Guardians to avoid
the dark path to which such actions would led, but the Guardians ignored
this, reassigning Rayner and Guy to Earth for their opposition to their
decree. After briefly returning to Earth, the two Lanterns returned
to Oa, encountering an immense swarm of black rings, which reanimated
all the deceased Lanterns in Oa's crypts, bringing Kyle face to face
with the reanimated corpse of Jade. Having learned that these
Black Lanterns are not truly the deceased persons they once were but
grotesque mockeries, Rayner tries to destroy them, but the false Jade
torments Rayner with images of people he has failed in the past. The
false Jade is destroyed by Natu.

During the Black Lanterns' attack upon the Central Power Battery on Oa,
Alpha Lantern Chaselon's internal power battery was breached.
Anticipating its detonation, and after professing his love for Natu,
Kyle sacrificed himself by grabbing it and using it to destroy as many
Black Lanterns as he could. Black rings attempt to resurrect Rayner
as a Black Lantern, but they are destroyed by the Corps, Munk of the
Indigo Tribe, and Miri Riam of the Star Sapphires, whose power embodies
love. Having sensed the love between Kyle and Soranik in jeopardy, she
uses her power to connect Kyle's heart to Natu's and restores Rayner to
life. Journeying to Earth, Rayner battles a Black Lantern version of
Alexandra DeWitt, where he helps defeat the Black Lantern Corps leader,
Nekron. In the aftermath, some of the Black Lanterns are restored to
life, including Jade.

War of the Green Lanterns

When the rogue Guardian Krona attacks Oa, he places Parallax back inside
the Central Power Battery, enabling him to control the Green Lanterns
through fear. Due to his past experiences with Parallax, Kyle is able to
resist the effects but is forced to remove his ring to prevent himself
from losing control. Tasked by Ganthet to flee, Kyle and John Stewart
make their way into Oa's underground. While there, they encounter
Guy and Hal, who has the rings of the other Corps leaders. Kyle, taking
Ganthet's earlier declaration that he was putting his "hopes" in him to
heart, chooses Saint Walker's ring, while Hal chooses Sinestro's, Guy
chooses Atrocitus's, and John chooses Indigo-1's. However, the blue
ring has the effect of supercharging the attacking Green Lanterns'
rings, severely impeding the Earthmen's defense. While Hal and Guy
go to remove Parallax from the Central Power Battery, Kyle and John
attempt to free Mogo from Krona's control. On the way, Kyle discovers
the blue ring's ability to show a person their greatest hope can free
the Lanterns from Krona's control. Unfortunately, it does not work on
Mogo, due to the residual Black Lantern energy in his core. Kyle can
only watch in horror as John absorbs the Black Lantern energy, along
with all the Green Lantern energy, and uses it to destroy Mogo. In
the fallout, the two regroup with Hal, Guy, and Ganthet, using the full
power of the emotional spectrum to crack open the Battery and release
Parallax. Their job done, the Lanterns regain their original green
rings, in preparation for the final confrontation with Krona. In the
final battle, Hal takes Kyle to the Book of the Black and makes him draw
a picture of Sinestro, Carol Ferris, and the others Lanterns trapped in
the Book, which effectively frees them from their prison.

In the aftermath of the war, Kyle and Soranik are forced to deal with
their relationship issues. Kyle talks with Tomar-Tu about his problems
with Soranik, but they, along with Soranik, are teleported into an alien
world ravaged by Star Sapphire Miri Riam. The Lanterns subdue Miri, who
reveals them that she did not kill anyone on the planet and she only
damaged property to force Kyle and Soranik to reunite and solve their
problems, reminding them of the time when she used her crystal to reveal
to them their respective true loves. However, Kyle reveals that when
Miri showed him his true love, he saw Jade, not Soranik. He justified
himself saying that although Jade was the love of his life, she was dead
and he needed to move on. Angered, Soranik breaks up with Kyle, telling
him not to enter her sector.

The New 52

After the War of the Green Lanterns, Kyle resumes his functions on
Earth, using his signature creative constructs to save construction
workers caught in a construction accident. Elsewhere in the universe,
red, indigo, violet, and yellow power ring bearers are decommissioned,
and their rings set out for Sector 2814 (Earth). After saving the
construction workers, the four rings approach Kyle, each claiming him as
their new bearer. Confused by the appearance of the rings, Kyle is soon
ambushed by the decommissioned bearers' peers, who have tracked the
rings to Kyle and have come to retrieve them.

As Kyle fights the four lanterns, a blue ring appears, claiming Kyle as
its bearer. Soon afterward, Saint Walker appears, having tracked the
ring's trajectory, and helps Kyle reach Oa to try to understand what is
happening. On their way an orange ring reaches Kyle, with Saint Walker
claiming if the orange ring had come to Kyle, and since only one orange
ring exists, it means that its former bearer must be dead. On Oa, Kyle
tries to talk to Ganthet, only to discover that the Guardians have
removed all emotion from him, and Ganthet now acts just like all the
other Guardians of the Universe. When the Guardians try to capture Kyle
and forcibly discover what turned the Green Lantern into a magnet for
the different Corps' rings, the six rings impose themselves on Kyle,
turning him into the first entity to bear all seven Lantern Corps'
rings. Despite some initial success, Kyle's body is eventually
unable to keep up the strain of wielding all of his new rings, with five
of the new rings destroyed after a few moments, leaving just the orange
ring along with his green ring. Ganthet attempts to remove Kyle's green
ring and dismiss him from the Corps, but the ring itself reacts
violently to this attempt to remove it. The orange ring is revealed to
be a construct of Glomulus, who asks Kyle for help, with the other
ring-bearers arriving to either assist or attack Kyle. When the
Guardians forcefully strike down the lanterns save for Glomulus,
Larfleeze himself shows up and attacks the Guardians. Accompanied by
Sayd, Larfleeze attacks the Guardians, but when Kyle hears Sayd imply
that there is a way to restore Ganthet to normal, he joins forces with
the other ring-wielders and flees the Guardians, essentially resigning
from the Corps while retaining his ring. Talking with Larfleeze, they
learn that the rings were drawn to Kyle due to the actions of a
mysterious space ship that has just entered this universe. Larfleeze
sent Glommulus to investigate it since he was able to resist the
"compulsion" of the source that tried to remove his ring due to his
prolonged contact with it, and the new team resolved to investigate this
new threat. When they are attacked by the mysterious and powerful
Archangel Invictus, who claims that all who wield the rings are evil,
Kyle sends out a message to the other ring-wielders by convincing his
ring to tap into his own emotions of hope, fear, and compassion to "tune
in" to the appropriate "wavelength". Learning of Invictus's past
history with Larfleeze, Kyle is able to trick him into letting the
ring-bearers go by claiming that they will kill Larfleeze for him.
With his ring low on power, Kyle returns to Earth with Bleez to recharge
his ring, Bleez suggesting that Kyle will need protection from the
Guardians after his expulsion while retaining his ring. Although he
fails to reach the Blue Lanterns in time to save them from the invading
Reach, Kyle is able to lead the New Guardians to fight Larfleeze
and Invictus, subsequently learning that Sayd was responsible for
turning him into a "ring magnet" in the hope that he would be able to
bring the seven Corps together to save Ganthet, as both the only person
who loved Ganthet as much as her and the only person able to wield all
the powers of the emotional spectrum. Despite learning the truth about
their origins, the New Guardians split up since they feel that the
circumstances of their origin have tainted the team from the beginning
regardless of Sayd's motives.

Attempting to track down Hal, Kyle meets Carol Ferris just as they
witness a news report about Hal and Sinestro's fight with Black Hand,
prompting Carol to re-don her Sapphire ring to help Kyle battle the
Black Lanterns, only to find nothing but "conventional" zombies.
Although Kyle's ring states that Hal was apparently dead, Carol rejects
this idea as the link between her heart and Hal's, which she is aware of
although her ring is still intact. Through a vision from her ring, Carol
realizes that Kyle must unite the powers of all seven Corps to stop this
latest threat, despite Kyle's uncertainty about his ability to channel
the powers of rage or avarice even if he has already accessed the powers
of hope and fear. Carol is able to contact Atrocitus to help train
Kyle to harness the red ring of rage by arguing that Kyle will use that
power against the Guardians. He attempts to provoke Kyle's rage by
reminding him of the death of his girlfriend Alex after he got the ring,
but when this fails, Kyle instead feeling grief rather than anger, he
takes Kyle to witness a group of people being threatened and executed in
another country, Kyle's anger at this provoking the activation of the
red power within him, also turning him disturbingly cold toward the
desecration of Alex's grave. Although Arkillo and Larfleeze
are able to help him harness the powers of fear and greed, it takes a
confrontation with Ganthet to help Kyle harness the power of love since
Kyle accepts his refusal to harm Ganthet despite what he has become due
to his fatherly regard for Ganthet. With his powers at their peak, Kyle
resolves to lead the Guardians in the confrontation against the Third
Army.

When the villainous First Lantern is freed, he began to drain all the
Lantern Corps of their emotions, minds, and memories of the various
beings present with the intention of seeing how their life choices had
changed them. Kyle failed to fight off the First Lantern, which also
has the powers of the white light and drains his emotions. The First
Lantern teleports him back to his old home, leaving him weak. Later,
Carol locates Kyle, who resists from his critical weak state, while Kyle
and Carol arrive at the planet Korugar's grave when Sinestro rages to
attack them, blaming everyone for his home planet being destroyed.
Sinestro demands Kyle revive Korugar with the White Lantern ring's
abilities, but Kyle is unable to do so. Sinestro flies off vowing to
kill the First Lantern, while Kyle and Carol later team-up with Green
Lanterns Simon Baz and B'dg.

In the final battle, Kyle and the reserve Lantern Corps attack the First
Lantern, and he is finally destroyed. Afterwards, Kyle travels to
Earth and helps other people with the White Lantern's miracle power on
his own. However, he is confronted by Saint Walker, who convinces him
that he has to visit his own father, considering that Kyle has not seen
him since the First Lantern's attack. Later, Kyle arrives in Arizona and
reunites with his father in his filling station.

After the events of the "Lights Out" five-part saga, in which Relic
destroys Oa and the emotional spectrum, Rayner is believed dead after
sacrificing his life to kill Relic. It is later revealed that he is in
fact alive, and his survival will not be revealed to the Green Lantern
Corps. Soon enough Kyle discovered that when he went past the Source
Wall with the purpose to deliver the emotional entities there so that
the reservoir could be refilled he also saw the instructions that shape
the Universe, and he somehow changed the operating codes. Without even
realizing, Kyle created Oblivion from everything that gnawed deep in the
corners of his mind—the anxiety, the endless wants, the fears, and the
anger given form. Realizing that his power has grown too great for
him to keep it all under control, Kyle subconsciously creates the
Oblivion entity to destroy himself so that he cannot endanger anyone
else. However, various other ring-wielders, including Carol and the
repowered Saint Walker, band together and convince him to have hope,
resulting in Kyle working with the Templar Guardians into defeating
Oblivion. In doing so, Kyle is seemed to be destroyed, but in fact
teleported to a dead planet. He revives the dead world, to find that
it's a world like Mogo. The world speaks saying it was destroyed by its
brother for killing its own populace. After stating that it doesn't like
lanterns, it attacks Kyle in an attempt to kill him. Seeing as though
there's no other choice he takes back the life that he bestowed on the
now dead planet. Leaving himself to wonder alone in the vacuum of space,
what exactly is he capable of?


Powers and abilities

As a Green Lantern, Rayner is semi-invulnerable, capable of projecting
hard light constructions, flight, and utilizing various other abilities
through his power ring which are only limited by his imagination and
willpower. Kyle's constructs are much more elaborate than those of any
other Green Lanterns, often fading into view like a sketch refined into
an illustration. Eventually, he is able to utilize his skill as an
artist to manipulate the pigments and dimensions within his constructs,
making them appear so realistic that even Alan Scott was amazed at what
Kyle could do with his ring's creations.

Rayner's ring was constructed from what remained of Hal Jordan's ring by
Ganthet. It is keyed to Rayner and Hal Jordan's DNA, making it only
accessible to Rayner, Jordan, and anyone who is closely related to them
unless the bearer willed the ring to another individual. This is done by
Ganthet to prevent the last ring from being stolen, as there would be no
other lantern to send to retrieve it. Unlike most of the Green Lanterns'
rings, Kyle's did not require a twenty-four-hour period of recharge,
only when the ring's capacity was depleted; and it was not necessary to
recite the Corps' oath when recharged. Rayner is the first Lantern not
to suffer from a weakness to items colored yellow. Both Mongul and
Superman are very surprised at this upon first encountering him. Kyle
states that he didn't know about the weakness and never had any trouble
with it. Originally, this was explained as his ring being a "new model",
which also explained why it had slightly different abilities than those
seen previously. Later, this was retconned with the explanation that
rings can affect yellow if the user faces and overcomes their fear; as
an artist, Kyle had faced his fear of rejection every time he showed his
work, and this extended to his constructs, which he considered part of
his artwork.

When bonded with the benevolent Ion symbiont, Rayner was capable of much
more elaborate usage of his imagination which can extend to the
manipulation of reality. In possession of the more sinister Parallax
entity, Rayner was theoretically capable of similar feats.

During his relationship with Donna Troy, Rayner engaged in combat
training with his then-girlfriend. During his first battle with
Fatality, he proved to be a formidable fighter and was able to defeat
her when his ring was drained. In nearly every encounter with Fatality
since that incident, Kyle would use his combat skills to defeat her
rather than his ring in order to maintain an element of surprise (she
expected him to use his ring) or when his ring is drained or absent
during battles. As a member of the Justice League, Kyle occasionally
would train in the League's combat training systems on the Watchtower
and under the tutelage of combat-experienced Leaguers, such as Batman.
Even though Rayner is now a skilled hand-to-hand combatant, having been
trained by the Dark Knight himself, he is not an expert in hand-to-hand;
for example, while he initially held his own in a hand-to-hand fight
with Sinestro, the villain proved to be a better fighter due to his
greater experience.

As an Honor Guard Illustres, Rayner ranks only below Salaak, who holds
the rank of Clarissi, and the Guardians in the new Corps chain of
command.

During a brief period where he was turned into a 'magnet' for all rings,
Kyle could briefly wield the power of the entire emotional spectrum, but
the strain of doing so meant that the other six rings disintegrated
after only a few moments, leaving him feeling significantly weakened by
the effort. Despite all of the rings barring his own turning to
dust, a measure of each ring's power resides in Kyle which he is able to
channel in a combined burst of multicolored lights, Sayd noting that
Kyle is the only being she knows capable of bringing together the powers
of all of the branches of the emotional spectrum. The ability to use any
emotion spectrum light appears to be permanent, as Kyle is learning from
different members of each Corps on how to use each power individually
with limited success; he harnessed the power of Hope with relative ease,
but required a brutal training session with Atrocitus to master Rage,
while he only harnessed the power of Love during his fight with Ganthet.

After learning to master Avarice from a slightly unwilling Larfleeze,
Fear from Arkillo, and Compassion from Indigo-1 Kyle has learned how to
harness the entire emotional spectrum and as a result became a White
Lantern. As a White Lantern Kyle can heal injuries and ailments although
by his own admission he can't resurrect the dead. His ring is more
powerful than a standard power ring and can replicate the abilities of
any ring in the spectrum (except black) though the full extent of its
abilities are yet to be revealed.


Other versions

[Cover to issue #1 of Green Lantern: Evil's Might.]

-   In the Elseworlds tale Green Lantern: Evil's Might, which takes
    place in 1888, Kyle Rayner is a political cartoonist working under
    the pen name "Rain or Shine." Formerly an associate with Alan Scott
    and the Bowery Greens, Kyle broke off his ties with them when Alan
    killed a seventy-two-year-old shopkeeper named Angus Kelly. Kyle
    uses the magic ring he found inside the lantern for the benefit of
    the immigrant masses of New York. Kyle dies near the end in a
    showdown with Alan Scott, but not until he absorbs Alan into his
    ring and combines it with Alan's jewel piece. He then takes the bits
    and pieces of the Statue of Liberty and puts them together, and
    finally gives Carol her ring and dies in her arms. The story reuses
    Alan Scott's origin, with Kyle in the main role.
-   Kyle Rayner is a member of the Green Lantern Marine Corps in
    Superman: Red Son.
-   In the Elseworlds story 1001 Emerald Knights, IBN RAYNER is a
    young sultan being led astray by his evil vizier, taught life
    lessons by hearing the tales of Al-Jor-Dhan.
-   A female version of Kyle named Kylie Rayner resides on Earth-11 and
    is part of that world's Justice League.
-   In Superman & Batman: Generations, he takes on the role of Green
    Lantern when Alan Scott decides to retire. He reappears in
    Generations 2, where he is viciously attacked by Sinestro, before
    fleeing to the White House. His ring is then used by President Hal
    Jordan.
-   In JLA/Avengers, Kyle appears as the JLA's Green Lantern. He helps
    defeat Terminus by redirecting his staff's energy. During the battle
    in Metropolis, he attacks the Scarlet Witch and battles the Vision.
    Afterwards, he and Superman go to Santa Rico, but they are attacked
    by Ms.  and Wonder Man. Wonder Man manages to break Kyle's
    restraints and nearly defeats him before Superman intervenes. He
    also joins up with Wonder Woman to find the Spear of Destiny and
    faces Photon and Quasar. They defeat the two, but Iron Man appears
    and blasts them. In the Savage Land, Photon finally absorbs Kyle's
    energy and drains his ring. He uses the Cosmic Cube as a power
    source, but Ms.  takes it from him. When the two worlds are
    merged, Kyle is replaced with Hal Jordan as Green Lantern, but
    during the final battle with Krona, Kyle reappears and helps attack
    Krona's forces with a weapon created by his ring based on Iron Man's
    designs.
-   In the distant future, the Book of Oa says that Kyle would help a
    worth of beings throughout the universe with his White Lantern
    ring's miracle power.
-   In the "Convergence" crossover, Kyle had been a rookie Green Lantern
    when the dome over Metropolis shut off the powers to him and the
    rampaging Parralax. Over the course a year he becomes close friends
    with Hal Jordan who, lacking powers, is guilt ridden with the deaths
    he has caused.
-   Kyle appears in the second chapter of the Injustice: Year Two comic
    series, having spent a year away from Earth on a galactic mission to
    stop a war. Due to his lengthy absence he is completely unaware of
    all the events to have taken place on Earth, including: the
    destruction of Metropolis; the death of Superman's wife Lois Lane
    and unborn child; and the Man of Steel's turn to power over
    the world. Just before he reaches Earth he is intersected by
    Sinestro and his Corps, who are aware of Superman's changes.
    Sinestro removes Kyle's ring, though the Lantern is ripped apart by
    the Corps before he can suffocate in the vacuum of space.
-   In Star Trek/Green Lantern: The Spectrum War, after Hal Jordan and
    various other ring-bearers are sent into the new Star Trek
    universe, Hal mentions that Kyle was killed by Nekron during
    Nekron's new major assault on the universe.


In other media

Television

[Kyle Rayner as appeared in Superman: The Animated Series.] Kyle
Rayner appears in the Superman: The Animated Series episode "In
Brightest Day." He was initially voiced by Michael P. Greco. This Kyle
Rayner includes character elements of Hal Jordan. Rayner was a newspaper
commercial artist for the Daily Planet (and an aspiring comic book
artist; in the beginning of the episode he shows Jimmy Olsen a rejection
letter from  as in-joke) when he was chosen by the Lantern
ring. The ring had come from Abin Sur, who sent it off with his dying
breath (having been shot down to Earth by Sinestro). Mere moments after
receiving the ring, Rayner had to fight for his life against Sinestro.
With Superman's help, the new Green Lantern defeated Sinestro and took
his place amongst the Lantern Corps.

[Kyle Rayner in the Justice League Unlimited series] John Stewart was
established in Justice League as having been a Lantern for 10–15
years, later explained that Stewart's time as a Lantern before the
actual timeframe of Justice League was spent in a different sector
than 2814, and that he had very recently returned to Earth. Rayner is
first mentioned in the episode "Hearts and Minds" by Katma Tui to John
Stewart as she scolds him during his frustration when trying to relearn
his Lantern training; saying: "You're as bad as that Rayner kid you sent
me to train." Rayner is seen amongst the mourners at Superman's funeral
in "Hereafter", and finally returns with a speaking part in the Justice
League Unlimited episode "The Return", voiced by Will Friedle. Stewart
is still stationed in 2814, and Rayner on Oa, with other Green Lanterns
posted there. Additionally, an indirect reference to Kyle is made in the
episode "Kid Stuff" in which Superman, Wonder Woman, John Stewart and
Batman are transformed into children by Mordred. Using the power of the
Green Lanterns, John generates a mask for himself—having required
glasses as a child, he creates the mask to compensate for his renewed
need for them—which is identical in design to the one worn by Rayner in
the comics.

Kyle Rayner appears in Mad where he tries to appeal to Superman,
Batman, and Wonder Woman about being called "Super Friends."

Film

An alternate version of Kyle Rayner from a parallel Earth appears
briefly in the animated film Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths,
among the underlings of the Crime Syndicate, known as the Made Men.
Additionally, instead of being a Green Lantern, he wears a yellow
uniform, similar to those worn by the members of the Sinestro Corps.

Comics

Kyle Rayner also made a guest appearance in Garth Ennis and John
McCrea's Hitman series, during the "Local Hero" (issues #9 to #12)
arc. Kyle arrives at Gotham City to apprehend killer-for-hire Tommy
Monaghan, later finding himself involved, along Monaghan, in a struggle
against a clandestine government agency dedicated to kill and control
metahumans. Although Kyle displays heroic prowess during the events of
the arc, he is portrayed mostly in a humorous fashion and he is often
humiliated and ridiculed for comic relief.

Books

Kyle Rayner is also featured in the Justice League of America book
series by Dennis O'Neil called Hero's Quest, published by Pocket Star
Books in 2005. The story takes place outside of both the JLA book series
and the mainstream U storyline. It retells how Rayner came across the
ring, changing the events surrounding it, and the origins of superheroes
on Earth. Rather than Hal destroying the Corps, it was instead the
Guardians abandoning the Corps to remake the Universe, and Rayner is
chosen by Ganthet to be the one to stop them as the new Green Lantern.

Video games

-   Kyle Rayner makes an appearance in Justice League Heroes as an
    unlockable character.
-   Kyle Rayner appears in the massively multiplayer online role-playing
    game  Universe Online.
-   The "Emerald Twilight" storyline was to be adapted into a video game
    for the Super NES by developer Ocean Software. The game would have
    allowed players to assume the role of Kyle Rayner and take on
    Hal Jordan. The game was cancelled.
-   The White Lantern version of Kyle Rayner appears as a playable
    character in Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham, voiced by Josh Keaton.

