LADY QUARK is a fictional character, a superheroine in the  Universe.
In the  12-issue limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths
(1985-1986), the character was one of the rulers of Earth-Six, which was
ruled by royalty. In the current New 52 era  Multiverse, she and her
husband Lord Volt are now the monarchs of Earth-48, which appears to be
a modern analogue of Earth-Six in the original  multiverse.


Fictional character biography

Crisis

Lady Quark's husband Karak ("Lord Volt") and daughter Liana ("Princess
Fern") are both killed when Earth-6 is destroyed during the Crisis. She
is saved at the last minute by Pariah, a dimensional traveler. Lady
Quark helps most of the multiverse's surviving heroes and they journey
to the Dawn of Time to battle the Anti-Monitor. After the Crisis is
over, Lady Quark resettles on Earth with Pariah and Harbinger.

Missing her husband, Lady Quark approaches Will Payton with the idea of
having him become her consort in Starman Volume 1, #8 (March 1989),
but Payton rejects her advances.

L.E.G.I.O.N.

Lady Quark is eventually recruited by Vril Dox to be become a member of
the peace-keeping force L.E.G.I.O.N. in L.E.G.I.O.N. '90 #18. Lady
Quark is apparently killed in L.E.G.I.O.N. '94 #62 after a parasitic
shapeshifter absorbs her memories and powers. The shapeshifter replaces
her in L.E.G.I.O.N., but later dies in L.E.G.I.O.N. '94 #70. Lady
Quark's corpse is seen floating in space, heavily maimed.

Return

Eleven years later, Lady Quark returns alive and well without
explanation in Villains United #5 (2005), in which she is captured by
Sinestro at the request of Alexander Luthor, Jr.. She is imprisoned in
Luthor's tower as part of his plan to bring the core Earths of the
Multiverse back into existence. Lady Quark is later freed and joins
Earth's heroes in defeating Luthor in Infinite Crisis (2005-2006).

Lady Quark appears again in several splash pages of Tales of The
Sinestro Corps: Superman-Prime (December 2007), and again in a double
page spread of Legionnaires and characters associated with the Legion of
Super-Heroes in Final Crisis: Legion of 3 Worlds #5 (July 2009).

The New 52

In The New 52 reboot of Vibe, Lady Quark is revealed to be one of
Amanda Waller's and A.R.G.U.S's interdimensional prisoners. Vibe
releases Lady Quark, along with Gypsy, Pariah, and several other
formerly absent characters, and the former prisoners begin to attack
Amanda Waller and A.R.G.U.S.

Multiversity: Earth-48

In Grant Morrison's Multiversity series, Lady Quark and her husband,
Lord Volt, appear as residents of Earth-48 of the New 52's modified 
Multiverse. According to subsequent information, this iteration of
Earth-48 is a fusion of the pre-Crisis on Infinite Earths Earth-Six and
Warworld (52's Earth-48). Lady Quark, Lord Volt and their daughter Liana
are members of Earth-48's royal family, much as they were on Earth-Six



Powers and abilities

Lady Quark is a metahuman with the ability to absorb and emit nuclear
energies. She can direct these energies as percussive forces from her
body. Her powers allow her to fly and travel through space. If her
unexplained reappearance is taken as is, it may be assumed she can
regenerate herself even from seeming death.


Other versions

An older version of Lady Quark becomes one half of the tyrannical ruler
of L.E.G.I.O.N.

Lady Quark is featured-along with Lord Volt-in a 'Convergence' tie-in,
fighting Matrix-Supergirl. Her daughter, Princess Fern, is featured
in a 'Convergence' tie-in, fighting Parralax. Fern's parents are seen on
monitor screens.

