LAR GAND, known primarily as MON-EL (and alternatively as VALOR and
M'ONEL), is a fictional character in ' universe who is
associated with the Legion of Super-Heroes, Superboy, and Superman. The
character has been reinterpreted over the years, but in all versions
serves as a hero with abilities similar to those of Superman, sometimes
serving as a substitute for the better-known character.


Fictional character biography

Halk Kar

A precursor to the Lar Gand character appeared in the story "Superman's
Big Brother", in Superman #80 (February 1953). He was named HALK KAR,
and had a logo-less costume almost identical to Superman's, but with the
red and blue colors reversed. He was created by Otto Binder and artist
Al Plastino.

In the story, Halk Kar crash-lands on Earth in a rocketship and is
rescued by Superman, who discovers that Halk Kar suffers from amnesia.
Discovering that Halk Kar has a note from Jor-El (Superman's father)
mentioning his son, Superman assumes that Halk Kar must not only be from
his own planet Krypton, but he must be a son of Jor-El and thus also his
own older brother.

Superman quickly realizes that Halk Kar is less powerful than he is and
— instead of subjecting him to embarrassment over the fact that he may
be weaker than his younger brother — opts to use his own powers to cover
for Halk Kar's deficiencies. This plan backfires, as Halk Kar begins to
assume a superior attitude to Superman and even begins to make romantic
advances on Superman's girlfriend, Lois Lane.

Finally, Halk Kar recovers his memory, and explains that he is from the
planet Thoron, which is in the same star system as Krypton. Years ago,
while on a pioneer voyage into space, he landed on Krypton with his
damaged rocketship. There he met Jor-El, who explained that Krypton's
destruction was imminent and repaired Halk Kar's rocketship, sending him
away with the note which had a map from Krypton to Earth on it. Krypton
exploded shortly afterward, causing Halk Kar to be put into suspended
animation until he drifted to Earth to meet Superman, the grown-up son
of Jor-El referred to in the note. Halk Kar returns to Thoron in his
repaired rocketship, leaving Superman with the experience of briefly
having had a brother.

Mon-El

The Halk Kar plot was reused in Superboy #89 (June 1961), in a story
set during Superman's career as Superboy, one which simply disregarded
the history outlined in the original (a practice common at the time).
The character's name was changed to Lar Gand, his homeworld was changed
to Daxam, and he was made younger to roughly match Superboy's age. He
was an explorer who had landed on Krypton, where Jor-El warned him of
the planet's imminent destruction and gave him a map to Earth. He
suffered amnesia upon landing on Earth, where he met Superboy. As he
gained powers like Superboy, the hero concluded that he was a long-lost
brother, and named him MON-EL: "Mon" because he landed on Earth on a
Monday, and "El" for Superboy's own Kryptonian family name. He adopted a
human secret identity (Bob Cobb) to integrate into Superboy's hometown
of Smallville.

However the character was then shown to be immune to kryptonite, which
is radioactively poisonous to all Kryptonians. Believing that Mon-El has
been deceiving him, Superboy tries to trick him with a fake kryptonite
meteor made of lead, which turns out to be Mon-El's one weakness.
Furthermore, exposure to lead is irreversibly fatal to Daxamites, which
Mon-El explains, having regained his memory. Guilt-ridden over
inadvertently poisoning him, Superboy saves his life by sending him to
the extradimensional Phantom Zone, where he would be able to observe
things happening in the outside world, but as a phantom would not age
and his lead poisoning would not progress.

This provided for a means to use the character in contemporary stories
set in the 30th century with the Legion of Super-Heroes. In these
stories, Legion member Saturn Girl creates a temporary antidote to his
lead poisoning, allowing him to be released from the Phantom Zone for
brief periods of time, and he is considered an honorary Legionnaire.
Brainiac 5 later creates a permanent antidote, and he becomes a full
member. During his long career, he is written as one of the Legion's
three most-powerful members along with Superboy and Ultra Boy, and
serves two terms as leader. Mon-El apparently dies after failing
to take a dose of Brainiac 5's anti-lead serum in a timely fashion.
Eltro Gand, a distant descendant of his older brother, sacrificed his
life force to restore Mon-El to life. He marries fellow Legionnaire
Shadow Lass, with whom he has a long romantic relationship.

In 1985, ' revamp of their superhero universe Crisis on
Infinite Earths removed Superman's adventures as "Superboy" from the
character's history. Mon-El's character history remained unchanged,
however, with his encounter with Superboy said to have taken place in a
"pocket universe" created by the Time Trapper, a mysterious being living
at the end of the universe.

Severely injured and dependent on life-support equipment during a battle
with the Time Trapper after Superboy's death, Mon-El dies during the
Magic Wars which destroys much of the technology throughout the United
Planets. The Time Trapper later revives him, hoping to use his body
to preserve his own waning existence, but Mon-El kills him to prevent
the Trapper from further manipulating events throughout history. This
wipes Superboy's pocket universe out of existence, and alters the
timeline. The Trapper's role and powers are usurped by his onetime
underling Glorith, and Lar Gand is recast as "Valor".

Valor

In the new "Glorithverse" reality, Lar Gand replaced the non-existent
Superboy as the Legion's inspiration. As detailed in the story "The
Legend of Valor" (Legion of Super-Heroes (vol. 4) Annual #2, 1991),
Lar Gand would enjoy a heroic career in the 20th century as VALOR,
stopping a second Dominator-led invasion of Earth, freeing thousands of
humans who had been experimented on by the Dominators and seeding them
on a series of worlds between Dominion space and Earth as a "buffer
zone" to prevent future invasions. These colonists had gained metahuman
powers due to the experiments and would (by the time of the Legion),
evolve into many of the worlds that would join the United Planets. After
completing this task and an indefinite number of other 20th-century
ventures, he would be placed in the Bgztl Buffer Zone by the time
sorceress Glorith, to be rescued by the Legion in the 30th century. None
of these events had otherwise been depicted in comics about the 20th
century.

In his new history, Lar Gand was inspired by his father's sacrifice in
the crossover story Invasion!_ to become a hero. He briefly joins
L.E.G.I.O.N., where Vril Dox II cures his lead poisoning. He plays a
significant part in the Eclipso: The Darkness Within crossover, in
which Superman gives him the name "Valor". A solo series Valor about
the character lasted for 23 issues, beginning with Lar as an adventurous
young man exploring the universe in a spaceship with a sentient A.I.
called Babbage, encountering various aliens and civilizations. After #12
however, things became complex.

Glorith had continued altering the timeline, inadvertently recreating
the original Time Trapper in the process. Travelling back to when Lar
Gand was a young man in another attempt to win his affection, she
accidentally caused his death. Attempting to undo the damage this caused
history, she called forth a duplicate Valor from the Legion's time (a
second version of Valor created by the Time Trapper) to take his other
self's place, "patched" into the 20th century timeline by Waverider. He
was tasked with completing Valor's legendary feats such as stopping the
Dominators' second invasion of Earth and seeding the U.P. worlds so that
30th century history would play out as it was supposed to. However,
history was playing out much earlier than it was supposed to which led
to some changes in Valor's exploits. This was one of the many
destabilizations of the timestream that eventually led to Zero Hour,
and the "Legion Reboot".

M'Onel

[M'ONEL. Art by Jeff Moy and W.C. Carani.]

The character appeared again following the Zero Hour reboot, in
Superboy (vol. 3) #17. He was amnesiac, but had vague memories of his
time with L.E.G.I.O.N. and the events of his own series. He was found by
the loan shark of Superboy's agent and was tricked into fighting
Superboy as the whole battle was being recorded for the purpose of
betting on the winner. When Superboy saw that Valor was sick after he
started to become weakened and more disoriented as a result of Vril
Dox's anti-lead serum wearing off, Superboy placed him in the "Stasis
Zone" (the Phantom Zone by another name), where he was trapped for a
thousand years before being released by the Legion and a time-traveling
Superboy, and injected with Brainiac 5's improved version of his
ancestor's serum. To avoid the religious fervor his return would cause,
the Legion kept secret the fact this new Legionnaire was the legendary
Valor. He took the name M'ONEL, which, Legion founder R. J. Brande
claimed, was Martian for "He Who Wanders".

M'Onel would become a key player in the following The Legion comic
book series. With the rest of the Legionnaires, M'Onel is lost when
Superboy (Kon-El) and the Teen Titans lose the Persuader's axe while
trying to return to their own time. M'Onel attempts to hold the
Legionnaires in a human chain, but is sucked into a vortex. Shikari is
the only one who escapes when she is pulled free by the temporal
currents. She arrives in a changed future, leading into the current
Legion of Super-Heroes comics.

As the events of Infinite Crisis played out and time and space once
again were realigned and altered, this incarnation of Mon-El and his
exploits were thought to have been erased from the timeline. In Final
Crisis: Legion of 3 Worlds #2 this version of Mon-El resurfaced as well
as his post-Zero Hour Legion teammates.

2004 "Threeboot" Continuity

The character was introduced again following another reboot of Legion
history in 2004. In Supergirl and the Legion of Super-Heroes #23 (Dec
2006), Saturn Girl senses a telepathic call for help, which turns out to
be Mon-El in the Phantom Zone, suffering from 1,000 years of sensory
deprivation and dying from lead poisoning. He is confused as to who put
him in the Phantom Zone, but remembers the "S" symbol and attacks
Supergirl. Brainiac 5 makes an anti-toxin for the lead poisoning using
kryptonite, but this wears off, requiring him to be returned to the
Phantom Zone. It is revealed in Final Crisis: Legion of 3 Worlds that
this future is not the future of New Earth but instead the future of
Earth-Prime. The full actual past of this version of Mon-El is unknown,
however he claimed to have known Supergirl and Superman in the past.

Post-Infinite Crisis

[Mon-El in his costume honoring Superman. Art by Jamal Igle.] In
conjunction with the crossover Infinite Crisis, the nature of Daxam,
and thus Mon-El, was heavily retconned. He became the remote descendant
of a male human and Bal Gand, a female Daxamite who visited Earth during
the height of the Maya culture. She returned to Daxam, rather than let
her child be born as an apparent demigod on Earth, but programmed her
spaceship to return him to Earth if Daxamite xenophobia made that
necessary. Generations later, her descendant Lar Gand gives in to his
suppressed instinct to escape the increasingly isolated Daxam and travel
the stars, and is brought by his ancestor's ship to its pre-programmed
destination: Earth, the Central American continent.

February 2007's Action Comics Annual #10, gave a revised version of
how Clark Kent met the character. It closely matches the 1960 story, but
amnesiac Mon-El is poisoned when Clark tries to test whether he is
Kryptonian with a piece of kryptonite, and the protective lead casing
for the meteor both poisons him and restores his memories. He recalls
that upon arriving at Earth, a sunspot storm ruptured his fuel cells,
causing him to crash (and explaining how his ship missed Central America
by thousands of miles, crash-landing in Smallville instead) and lose his
memory. Clark again uses a portal to the Phantom Zone to put Mon-El in
stasis until his lead poisoning can be cured.

In Superman #685, Superman releases Mon-El from the Phantom Zone to
save him from its collapse. Mon-El is cured of his lead poisoning by a
cure left anonymously for him by the Legion. In the 21st century, he
adopts the human alias of Clark's cousin "Jonathan Kent" from London,
and acts as protector of Metropolis while Superman joins the off-Earth
settlement of New Krypton, populated by refugees from the planet's
destruction.

He briefly joins the Metropolis Science Police, until he's captured by
Sam Lane's Project 7734, who fake his death at the hand of Flamebird and
Nightwing. Mon-El manages to escape, but ends up stranded in the Forlorn
Dimension, helping Captain Atom to get free from the clutches of
Mirabai, the evil queen of the Forlorn and Sam Lane's chief ally.

Following his escape, Mon-El returns to Metropolis wearing a modified
version of his red and blue costume (similar to the costume of the
Golden Age Halk-Kar) complete with a Superman S-Shield over his left
chest. He assists the Science Police in capturing Parasite. Mon-El also
attempts to apprehend Bizarro, only to turn back after he escapes to
Bizarro World. Upon returning home, Mon-El asks Superboy to reprogram
Kellex, the android at the Fortress of Solitude, to repair the starship
he came to Earth in. He also enters into a sexual relationship with
Billi Harper, the Guardian's grandniece.

Following a battle with Atomic Skull, Mon-El was invited to join the new
Justice League of America at the invitation of Doctor Light (Kimiyo
Hoshi). After helping to save New Krypton and seeding the UP worlds
in accordance with time-loop instructions from the Legion, (Last Stand
of New Krypton), Mon-El, now near death having become immune to the
lead poisoning antidote, is returned to the recreated Phantom Zone by
Superman and Chameleon, where he remains until rescued by the Legion in
1000 years. Whether his long isolation has caused memory loss or he
is carefully avoiding a time paradox by never mentioning his 21st
century adventures is unknown. In the final issue of War of the
Supermen, it is revealed that Billi is pregnant, presumably with
Mon-El's child.

Post-Infinite Crisis Legion

[Mon-El in his Green Lantern costume.] The events of the Infinite
Crisis miniseries have also restored a close analogue of the Pre-Crisis
Legion to continuity, as seen in The Lightning Saga story arc in
Justice League of America and Justice Society of America, and in the
Superman and the Legion of Super-Heroes story arc in Action Comics.
Mon-El is included in their number. In the latter story, it was revealed
that Mon-El was banished back into the Phantom Zone by Earth Man.

In the Final Crisis: Legion of 3 Worlds miniseries, which follows
after Superman and the Legion of Super-Heroes, Mon-El is rescued from
the Phantom Zone by his teammates. Upon leaving the Zone, Mon-El once
again suffers the effects of lead poisoning, but as in the past, is
inoculated with an antidote created by Brainiac 5. He and Shadow Lass
are then sent on a mission to Oa to recruit the immortal Sodam Yat (the
last Guardian of the Universe) into the war against Superboy-Prime and
the Legion of Super-Villains. Mon-El forms a bond with the reluctant Yat
as both a fellow Daxamite and as one who has outlived family and
friends.

Later on, he is chosen to become a Green Lantern by Dyogene. Before
leaving, he told Shadow Lass that even though he is a GL, the Legion,
Earth and his friends will always be his family.

The New 52

In The New 52, Gand appears as the field leader of the Legion of
Super-Heroes. It is further revealed that this version, as the
entire Legion, is possibly the original one from before the Flashpoint
event as they are even aware of these altering reality events.


Powers and abilities

Generally, the abilities of Lar Gand (and other Daxamites) are identical
to those of Superman and other natives of the planet Krypton
(super-strength; speed; flight; x-ray, heat, microscopic and telescopic
vision powers; invulnerability; and super hearing), with three major
exceptions:

1.  He is vulnerable to the inert element lead, instead of the
    radioactive element Kryptonite. (Note: Simultaneous exposure to
    Green Kryptonite and lead negates the latter's harmful effects. In
    Superboy #89, Superboy, having come to suspect that his "brother"
    may be an impostor, exposes a sleeping Mon-El to Kryptonite
    contained in a lead box, and his mystery visitor shows no reaction
    to either substance. It was stated on at least one occasion
    pre-Crisis that Kryptonite is one ingredient of Brainiac 5's version
    of the anti-lead serum.)
2.  Lead poisoning is fatal to Daxamites, and Lar is kept alive only
    through regular ingestion of anti-lead serum, such as the one
    modified by Brainiac 5.
3.  As a side-effect of the anti-lead serum, the radiation of a red star
    will not rob him of his powers, as it would with most Daxamites
    and Kryptonians.

Lar Gand is considered to be the most powerful member of the Legion of
Super-Heroes.


In other media

Television

-   The animated Legion of Super Heroes series featured a teenaged
    Legionnaire named SUPERMAN X, who was conceptually based on Mon-El,
    Kon-El, and the Eradicator, wearing an outfit with elements from all
    three heroes. Like Mon-El, Superman X lacked a weakness to
    Kryptonite and was treated like a brother by the real Superman.
    According to the series producer James Tucker, Superman X was
    specifically created to fill the role created for Mon-El after
    several Warner Bros. executives voiced opinions about Mon-El being
    "too similar" to Superman to work on a children's show.

