LARA (née LARA LOR-VAN) is a fictional character who appears in Superman
comics published by . Lara is the biological mother of
Superman, and the wife of scientist Jor-El. Lara Lor-Van is Lara's full
maiden name, as "Lor-Van" is the name of Lara's father. Most
depictions of Kryptonian culture show that Kryptonian women use their
father's full name as their last names before marriage. After marriage,
they usually are known simply by their first names, though various
versions show they use their husband's full name or last name as their
married last name.

Lara's role in the Superman mythos has varied over the years, with her
treatment and emphasis often depending on the decade she was written in.
Golden Age and early Silver Age stories treated Lara in a lesser role
compared to her husband. However, stories from the 1970s onwards depict
Lara in more prominent roles; one such example is the 2004 miniseries
Superman: Birthright._

After constructing his Fortress of Solitude, Superman honored his
deceased biological parents with a statue of Jor-El and Lara holding up
a globe of their native planet Krypton.


Fictional character biography

Golden and Silver Age versions

[Lara, Jor-El, and Superman. From the cover of Superman (volume 1)
#141 (November 1960). Art by Curt Swan.] Lara first appeared in the
Superman newspaper comic strip in 1939, where she was first named
"Lora." Her first comic book appearance (after being mentioned in the
1942 text novel The Adventures of Superman by George Lowther, where
she was named "Lara" for the first time) was in More Fun Comics #101
in January–February 1945. A 1948 retelling of Superman's origin story
subsequently delved into detail about Lara, though her more familiar
Silver Age aspects became more firmly established starting in the late
1950s and over the course of the next several decades.

After the establishment of 's multiverse in the early 1960s, the
Golden Age version of Superman's mother was stated as having been named
"Lora", and lived on the Krypton of the Earth-Two universe. The
Silver Age Lara, meanwhile, lived on the Krypton of the Earth-One
universe.

A definitive synopsis of the Silver Age Lara's life (summarizing the
various stories revealing her history) came in the 1979 miniseries The
World of Krypton (not to be confused with the post-Crisis on Infinite
Earths late 1980s comic special of the same name).

As summarized in The World of Krypton (and in various other stories),
Lara was a promising astronaut in Krypton's space program. However,
Krypton's space program was soon permanently grounded after Jax-Ur blew
up one of Krypton's inhabited moons. Eventually, Lara met scientist
Jor-El, with the two having several adventures together before getting
married. Some time later, Lara gave birth to the couple's only
child, Kal-El.

Early in Jor-El and Lara's marriage, the couple are briefly watched by
the Guardians of the Universe, who note that Lara (or her husband) would
have made an excellent Green Lantern.

Lara and her husband Jor-El were shown to be practitioners of the
Kryptonian martial art of "klurkor".

When Krypton was about to explode, Lara and Jor-El placed their infant
son into an escape rocket built by Jor-El. In most retellings, Jor-El
wanted Lara to accompany their son to Earth, but Lara refused, saying
their son would have a better chance of reaching Earth without her extra
weight. Kal-El's spaceship then took off, leaving Lara and Jor-El to
perish.

Modern Age versions

After the 1985-1986 miniseries Crisis on Infinite Earths and John
Byrne's 1986 miniseries The Man of Steel rewrote Superman's origins,
details about Lara's background and character were changed. Under
Byrne's version, Lara inhabited a cold, emotionally sterile Krypton
where even bodily contact was forbidden. Jor-El was considered a
"throwback" for actually expressing emotions toward his wife Lara, and
for his favoring the less sterilized days of past Kryptonian eras. In
this version of the mythos, Lara was a librarian and historian of high
rank, and thought it horrifying that Kal-El would be sent to a
"primitive" planet such as Earth. Her grandmother Lady Nara and Seyg-El,
Jor-El's father, were the ones who arranged the union between them – so
that they might have a child who would fill an opening in the planet's
Register of Citizens when another Kryptonian died a rare and untimely
death.

In the 2004 Superman miniseries Superman: Birthright, Lara, along with
Krypton and Jor-El, more or less again became their Silver Age versions,
though with updated touches. In this version, Lara is treated as a fully
equal partner to Jor-El in constructing Kal-El's spacecraft and in
designing various key components.

In the 2009 series Superman: Secret Origin by Geoff Johns, Superman is
first introduced to his birth mother in his teens by the spaceship that
brought him to the Earth as a baby. She is introduced to Kal-El by a
hologram of Jor-El as his mother. This moment shocks Superman and brings
tears to Martha Kent's eyes.

Also in 2009, Lara's own family background is described. Lara Lor-Van is
born into the Labor Guild, whose members are not physically abused but
have no say in the choices of their lives and who, unlike the members of
other guilds, cannot change guilds. Lara became a member of her
husband's Science Guild when she married him and was thereby granted all
the freedoms granted to other Science Guild members. A member of
Krypton's Military Guild describes this as being "raised up."

The New 52

In The New 52, Lara is a member of Krypton's military forces. One of
the most talented students on the Military Academy, Lara is both a
skilled fighter and a bright scientist.

Lara appears in the "Krypton Returns" storyline. She gives her maiden
name as "Lara Van-El."

Other versions

In Frank Miller's mini-series Batman: The Dark Knight Strikes Again
(also referred to as DK2), LARA is the name of the daughter of Superman
and Wonder Woman, with the powers of a Kryptonian and the warrior
attitude of an Amazon. She has a poor opinion of people less powerful
than herself and tries to persuade her father to rise above the "humans"
and maybe even take over the world. He himself is torn between this and
his adopted parent's view that he should use his powers to help rather
than to dominate. Ultimately, he rejects the former option and
reconciles with Batman.


In other media

Lara has appeared (usually briefly) in various media adaptations of the
Superman story. However, as was the case in the older comics, Lara
usually has a less prominent role than Jor-El in such depictions.

Radio

Agnes Moorehead portrayed Lara in the debut episode of the radio serial
The Adventures of Superman on February 12, 1940. She reprised the role
in a few later episodes.

Television

-   In 1952, Lara was portrayed by Aline Towne in "Superman on Earth",
    the premiere episode of Adventures of Superman.
-   In the Super Friends episode called "The Planet Splitter," she was
    featured in a flashback.
-   Lara was also in the Challenge of the SuperFriends episode "Secret
    Origins of the Super Friends."

[Lara and her husband, Jor-El, in the first episode of Bruce Timm's
Superman: The Animated Series]

-   In 1996, Lara's voice was provided by Finola Hughes in "The Last Son
    of Krypton", the premiere episode of Superman: The Animated
    Series. She is depicted with elements of her Silver Age and Modern
    Age selves, where she is headstrong and an equal partner to Jor-El,
    but instead of being a scientist she is an artist. She also sports
    the forehead hair curl that has become a characteristic trait of
    Superman's physical appearance.
-   The Silver Age versions of Jor-El and Lara appear in the Pinky and
    the Brain episode "Two Mice and a Baby" as they place an infant
    Kal-El in his ship as Krypton crumbles.
-   Lara made a cameo with Jor-El in the Justice League
    episode "Twilight".
-   Lara has appeared in one episode of Season 3 in Smallville, played
    by Kendall Cross. Clark was dipped in a tank of kryptonite enhanced
    liquid used to induce repressed memories to come to surface. His
    mother placed baby Kal-El into the rocket which will take him
    to Earth. While Jor-El was more concerned about his son fulfilling
    his destiny, Lara was worried no one would love him. Clark came out
    of his fugue screaming her name, leaving him with the reassurance
    that his mother had loved him (As opposed to Jor-El's apparently
    heartless manipulation of him, although his intentions were later
    confirmed to be benevolent), Martha Kent subsequently telling him
    "Lara" was his first word, but she and Jonathan never knew what
    it meant. In the episode named "Lara" of season 7, it is revealed
    that Lara, now played by Supergirl actress Helen Slater, visited
    the Kent farm prior to the destruction of Krypton. Along with Kara,
    they hide a photograph of Lara so that Kal-El will find it. It is
    also noted in this episode that Lara's DNA was hidden in the blue
    crystal by her brother-in-law Zor-El. Pictures of Lara from this
    episode can be found here. In the episode "Blue" Lara and Zor-El
    are released onto Earth in corporeal form (although technically
    not alive). The story culminates in Clark's destruction of the
    crystal to rid the world of Zor-El. Although upset to again lose his
    mother, with her assurance that she loves him, he is able to in
    order to save Kara's life. The naming conventions in Smallville
    seem to differ from the comic book continuity. Kara refers to Lara
    as Lara-El at the start of the episode of "Blue." This means that
    females, on Smallville, take their husband's last name and attach
    to their first. In the 10th season episode "Abandoned!", she appears
    alongside Julian Sands as Jor-El, appearing in the form of a
    holographic message that Jor-El and Lara had recorded for Kal-El
    shortly before his ship was launched. After Lois travels to the
    Fortress to confront Jor-El about his failures as a father, the
    message featuring Jor-El and Lara assures their son that they have
    faith in him.
-   Ana Franchesca Rousseau portrays Lara in the pilot of
    Supergirl.

Film

-   Lara is portrayed by Luana Walters in "Superman Comes to Earth", the
    first chapter of the 1948 Superman movie serial. Portions of this
    depiction appear in flashback as Lex Luthor recounts the story of
    Krypton's destruction in "At the Mercy of Atom Man!", the seventh
    chapter of the 1950 serial Atom Man vs. Superman.
-   Lara was played by Susannah York in Superman (1978), Superman II
    (1980) and Superman IV: The Quest for Peace (1987) (voice only).
    After Marlon Brando (Jor-El) was removed from Superman II, Lara
    took on the role as Superman's mentor, in both Superman II and
    IV. She was later replaced by Brando's Jor-El in Superman II: The
    Richard Donner Cut, the 2006 edit of Superman II.
-   In 2011's direct-to-video animated film All-Star Superman, Lara
    and her husband Jor-El appear briefly in a flashback during the
    moment they sent their infant son Kal-El to Earth to survive
    Krypton's destruction. Also, a large statue of Lara and one of
    Jor-El are kept by Superman in his Fortress of Solitude.
-   Ayelet Zurer portrays Lara in the 2013 film Man of Steel.
    Julia Ormond had previously been announced as cast, but dropped
    out. Connie Nielsen was in negotiations for the role before
    Ormond was cast. In this version, she is hesitant about sending
    her only child away to a primitive world, fearing they will
    kill him. Even after her husband assures her that that is
    impossible, she worries that the craft won't make it. When Zod
    confronts Jor-El about stealing the codex and learns of the Els'
    natural-born son (which is against Kryptonian Law as all children
    are genetically-engineered to be more efficient), he fights Jor-El
    while Lara punches in the launch coordinates to her son's ship and
    sends him to earth despite Zod's pending to Save Krypton she decides
    to save her son's life. She runs to her husband's side after he is
    killed by Zod. She attends the sentencing of Zod and his rebels into
    the Phantom Zone where she gives Zod a stoic and cold look even
    after he cryptically warns her that he will find her son. After
    placing her husband's corpse into a burial chamber, she watches as
    Krypton is destroyed. Before she dies with the rest of her people,
    her last words to her son were "Make a better world than ours Kal."
-   An alternate universe version of Lara appears in Justice League:
    Gods and Monsters voiced by Lauren Tom.

Video games

-   The Man of Steel version of Lara appears as a playable character
    in Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham.

Parodies

-   Lara appeared in the Robot Chicken episode "Especially the Animal
    Keith Crofford" voiced by Vanessa Hudgens.


Notes

