LAUREL GAND, aka codename Andromeda, is a fictional superheroine in
the 30th/31st-century  universe, and a member of the Legion of
Super-Heroes. She was created as a replacement for Supergirl in
post-Crisis on Infinite Earths Legion continuity. She was also
inspired by elements of Superman's supposed descendant Laurel Kent (who,
in post-Crisis, pre-Zero Hour continuity, was revealed to be a
Manhunter android).


Fictional character biography

Pre-Zero Hour

Following her death in the Crisis on Infinite Earths limited series,
Supergirl was removed from mainstream  continuity, endangering the
status of every Legion story featuring the Girl of Steel. Following the
events of Legion of Super-Heroes (vol. 4) #4-5 (February–March 1990),
the sorceress Glorith supplants the Time Trapper as reality's master of
time manipulation, resulting in several alterations in Legion
continuity. In the new timeline, the 30th century native Laurel Gand
replaces 20th century native Supergirl in Legion history; all of Kara
Zor-El's appearances are said to have been appearances by Laurel.

The pre-Zero Hour Laurel was similar to the pre-Crisis Supergirl in
that she was a distant relative of the Glorithverse's Superboy analogue,
Valor, and was born on an asteroid (which, in this continuity was called
"Ricklef II"). Also, upon arriving on Earth she had posed as a shy,
bookish young woman with glasses. As a child, Laurel fought off a
Khundian attack force threatening to invade Daxam (the planet of her
ancestry), but not before the Khunds slaughtered her parents and other
inhabitants of the Ricklef II research station. Living in exile on Earth
and fearing further vengeance from the Khunds, Laurel jumped at the
chance to join the Legion of Super-Heroes.

Where the pre-Crisis Supergirl had been romantically linked to Brainiac
5, so too was Laurel Gand. However, Laurel and Brainy eventually parted
ways, and after the "Five Year Gap", it was revealed (much to Brainiac's
dismay) that Laurel had married Rond Vidar and borne a daughter, Lauren.
Laurel spent her years away from the Legion, singlehandedly beating
Khundian forces back from the United Planets systems, and rejoined the
reunited Legionnaires when her husband Rond disappeared while on a
mission to rescue Mysa Nal (the White Witch) from Mordru the Merciless.
Laurel proved a tremendous asset to the new Legion during the war
against Earthgov and the Dominators. When the mysterious "Batch SW6"
doppelgänger Legion appeared, the younger SW6 Laurel soon distinguished
herself from her adult counterpart by taking on the codename "Andromeda"
and wearing a colorful gold-and-black costume. It is unknown whether the
adult Laurel ever used "Andromeda" (or any other codename) during her
own youth in the Legion.

The adult Laurel stayed with her Legion when it was forced to go
underground to fight corruption in the Science Police. Tragically,
Laurel was killed by a terrorist bomb during one of the renegade
Legion's early missions. Shortly thereafter, Laurel, her younger self,
and the rest of the Legions were erased from history, following the
Zero Hour reboot.

Post-Zero Hour

Laurel Gand spent most of her early life in a xenophobic Daxamite White
Triangle community, being indoctrinated in the "horrors" of interspecies
co-operation before the Triangle's political clout led her to become the
Daxamite representative in the Legion. Away from Daxam's red sun, she
gained powers similar to Superman's, but the race-wide hypersensitivity
of Daxamites to lead meant that even minuscule amounts could prove
fatal, even to a powered-up Daxamite, forcing her to wear a transuit at
all times. This did not trouble her, since it meant she never had to
actually touch any non-Daxamites.

Her Triangle-derived beliefs hampered her effectiveness as a
Legionnaire, thanks to her reluctance to physically engage with any
enemies, but the real problems started after she let several Triangle
members go free after a mugging, shortly after which they beat and
almost killed Triad. Angered more for their defiance of her than for the
beating, when she was ordered away to prevent the Composite Man gaining
her powers, she flew after them. Immediately, they tore her transuit and
directly exposed her to lead, and she barely managed to turn them over
to the Science Police before crashing through the walls of Legion HQ.

While Brainiac 5 worked on devising an anti-lead serum, he confronted
her about her beliefs. After discovering the serum which Vril Dox II,
his direct ancestor, had created for Valor and tailoring it to her
genetic structure to allow it to work properly on her (much to her
surprise, as she had been taught that all members of the same race were
identical), Brainiac 5 forced her to confront the fact that he wasn't
her inferior before giving her the serum. While this was happening,
however, Shrinking Violet discovered a White Triangle necklace in her
room and connected it to the group which had assaulted Triad and
destroyed Trom, telling the rest of the team.

Confined to quarters after an unsuccessful attempt by Cosmic Boy to have
her removed from the team, she used her super-senses to see Ambassador
Roxxas gloating, but he managed to bully her into giving him the
anti-lead serum. Taking it himself and giving it to four other
Daxamites, they proceeded to cause mass destruction on Earth. When
Andromeda herself confronted Roxxas over what he was doing and had made
her do, she was almost defeated when Violet began thrashing around in
his head, before coming out and telling Andromeda to take him down. As
she pummelled him repeatedly, he destroyed the covering of an "atomic
furnace", and both were thought to have died in the resulting inferno
(causing Brainiac 5 severe depression). Only Cosmic Boy was told that
she had survived and voluntarily exiled herself to Planet Hell.

Later, she was brought out of this exile by Live Wire, after Cosmic Boy
had told him where she was as part of a way to build up a "Legion Rescue
Squad", and she was awed by Valor (who later called himself M'onel),
himself being another member. However, she declined to rejoin the Legion
after the Squad had served its purpose, preferring to head off into deep
space. She eventually joined a religious convent.

After the events of Infinite Crisis, Earth-247, the home of the
Post-Zero Hour Legion, was destroyed. Andromeda appears in Final
Crisis: Legion of 3 Worlds, battling Superboy-Prime along with M'onel
(Valor) and Superman. Later, in the fifth issue, her pre-Zero Hour
younger and older counterparts are called to battle the Time Trapper,
alongside dozens of other Legionnaires from alternate realities. She
survives the battle and leaves with the 247 Legion to try to rescue more
survivors from destroyed universes.


Powers and abilities

Generally, the abilities of Laurel Gand (and other Daxamites) are
identical to those of Superman and other natives of the planet Krypton
(super-strength; speed; flight; x-ray, heat, microscopic or telescopic
vision powers; invulnerability and super hearing), with three major
exceptions:

    1. She is vulnerable to the inert element lead, instead of the
    radioactive element Kryptonite.
    2. Lead poisioning is fatal to Daxamites, and Laurel is kept alive
    only through ingestion of anti-lead serum, such as the one modified
    by Brainiac 5.
    3. In her two pre-Zero Hour incarnations, the radiation of a red
    star will not rob her of her powers, as it would with most Daxamites
    and Kryptonians.


In other media

Andromeda appears with Legion of Super-Heroes in Justice League
Adventures (the comic book adaptation of the modern Justice League
animated series) #28. She is shown as the girlfriend of Brainiac 5.

In Superman: The Animated Series, Andromeda made a cameo appearance in
the episode "New Kids In Town".

