LIGHTRAY (SOLIS) is a  superhero. Created by Jack Kirby for the
"Jack Kirby's Fourth World" meta-series, he first appeared in New
Gods #1 (February 1971).


Fictional character biography

Lightray is the shining star of New Genesis and a high-spirited New God.
Unlike his grim friend Orion, Lightray is cheerful and optimistic and
prefers to solve problems through compromise rather than combat. He uses
the speed of light to his advantage in eluding foes.

[Cover art for Countdown #48. Art by Andy Kubert.]

Lightray has served one stint as a member of the Justice League. He
joined the international branch along with Orion on the same night as a
membership drive failed to find other new recruits. The difference
between the two was illustrated in battle. While Lightray desires a
minimum of fuss in battle by dispatching his foe, Crowbar, with a simple
expenditure of energy to the man's face while, Orion prefers to destroy
the pavement around Blackrock—and then was angered when his opponent
surrendered instead of fighting to the death.

In this same issue, Lightray demonstrates his knowledge of chess.
Lightray's long hair causes him to be mistaken for a female by the
old-fashioned General Glory. They stay with the team until just after
the battle with General Glory's old foe the Evil Eye.

As Solis his idea of fun is protecting New Genesis from Apokolips,
Darkseid, and his minions. He resides on New Genesis and is active in
adventuring. He returns to Earth briefly in JLA #27 (March 1999), as
part of an emergency expansion of the Justice League. The team battles
the android Amazo in the Florida Everglades. Most of them are subdued
and their powers copied, Lightray included. Amazo loses his powers when
Superman, as the chairman, officially disbands the League, thus ending
Lightray's membership.

He would appear again to aid the League alongside Orion and Big Barda
when the planet Qward attacked earth with a giant ship.

In Countdown #48, Lightray falls to earth after an off stage fight
with the New Gods Killer (later revealed to be Infinity-Man). He dies
holding Jimmy Olsen's hand, repeating the word "infinite" and glowing
brighter.

In Final Crisis #7, Lightray is depicted standing alongside Barda and
Mister Miracle following the reincarnation of New Genesis on the ruins
of Apokolips.


Powers and abilities

Like all New Gods, Lightray is an immortal with superhuman strength,
durability and reflexes. Lightray—who flies at tremendous speeds—can
generate and project solar energy. Thus, he can create brilliant light
beams of laser-like intensity, and also create lifelike illusions.

In his headgear Lightray carries one of the "living computers" called
Mother Box.

Using his power to the utmost he can generate a massive sun, as he did
in New Gods #3 to escape the Black Racer. He can also fly at the speed
of light, 'maybe even faster' according to friend David Lincoln, and he
uses his own mother box. He has the ability to increase Superman's
abilities to almost limitless proportions.


Alternate versions

Seven Soldiers of Victory

Lightray makes several brief, non speaking appearances in Grant
Morrison's Seven Soldiers of Victory series, where his human form is a
frail man on crutches.

Captain Carrot

In the miniseries Captain Carrot and the Final Ark, Lightray's
counterpart in the "New Dogs" is an anthropomorphic dog named
Lightstray.

JLA: The Nail

In the 1998 Elseworlds JLA: The Nail, Lightray is depicted fighting in a
war between New Genesis and Apokolips.


In other media

Television

-   Lightray appears in the Superman: The Animated Series episode
    "Legacy" Pt. 2, in a non-speaking role.
-   Lightray appears in the two-part Justice League episode "Twilight"
    voiced by Rob Paulsen. When Batman and Wonder Woman arrive on New
    Genesis to look for Orion, Lightray taunts them, giving Wonder Woman
    a playful slap on the behind, prompting her to declare "He's worse
    than the Flash!". This leads to a chase around New Genesis as Batman
    manages to trap Lightray as Orion arrives.
-   Lightray returns in an unspeaking role in the Justice League
    Unlimited episode "Destroyer." He encounters Lex Luthor, Sinestro
    and the Secret Society near New Genesis after they have accidentally
    resurrected Darkseid only to be attacked and have his Mother Box
    stolen by Evil Star, which the villains use to return to Earth,
    their base having been destroyed by Darkseid. His fate after Evil
    Star steals his Mother Box is unknown.

Film

-   An alternate universe version of Lightray appears in Justice
    League: Gods and Monsters voiced by Trevor Devall. He partakes in
    the betrayal of Darkseid and is murdered by Bekka when he
    attacks her.

