LIGHTNING (JENNIFER PIERCE) is a fictional superhero published by 
Comics. A member of the Justice Society of America, she is the youngest
daughter of Black Lightning and sister of the heroine Thunder. The
current version of Lightning debuted in Justice Society of America
vol. 3 #12 (March 2008), and was re-envisioned by Geoff Johns and Dale
Eaglesham.


Publication history

Lightning first appears in the  miniseries Kingdom Come by
Mark Waid and Alex Ross, a tale of a dystopian possible future. She is
among the lawless generation of superheroes who arise after the
retirement of Superman. Though not identified within the story,
supplemental material in the collected edition of the series refers to
her as "Black Lightning's metahuman daughter." During the course of the
story, Lightning joins forces with Batman's covert team of heroes as
they attempt to reclaim the planet for normal humanity. It is unclear
whether she survives the bomb blast that kills most of the superhumans
at the story's conclusion.

A version of Lightning is later introduced into the mainstream 
universe by Geoff Johns and Dale Eaglesham, debuting in Justice Society
of America (vol. 3) #12 (March 2008).


Fictional character biography

Jennifer Pierce is the youngest daughter of the superhero Black
Lightning (Jefferson Pierce) and his ex-wife Lynn Stewart. She inherits
a metagene from her father which causes her to manifest superpowers when
she becomes a teenager. However like her father in his youth, she lacks
the ability to properly control her electrical powers. This results in
the shorting out of any electronic device that she touches. This side
effect has left her feeling alienated and freakish among her peers, who
have access to cell phones, televisions, the internet, and other
conveniences of the modern world.

Jefferson initially forbids his daughters from following in his
footsteps as a costumed hero until after they complete their education.
After seeing the rough road that his eldest daughter Anissa follows when
she disobeys this order as the heroine Thunder, Jefferson decides that
Jennifer will need guidance. He contacts the Justice Society of America,
who are in the middle of a recruitment drive.

Upon joining the Justice Society, Jennifer immediately forms a bond with
fellow teen heroines Stargirl and Cyclone. She also attracts the
romantic interests of Jakeem Thunder, another younger member of the
team. Jennifer is at first unsure of a superhero codename, believing
that her sister will "kill her" if she adopts the name Lightning as a
counterpoint to Anissa's own. Nonetheless, this is the name she
eventually settles on when she first goes into battle with the JSA.

Blackest Night/Brightest Day

During the events of Blackest Night, Jennifer is seen desperately
trying to fight off the Black Lantern invasion of Manhattan alongside
her teammates. Jennifer and Stargirl try to help Power Girl during her
battle with the Black Lantern Kal-L, but the young heroines are easily
defeated. Mr. Terrific ends up utilizing Lightning's electrical
abilities as part of a massive bomb designed to mimic Jakeem's
abilities, which ultimately destroys all of the Black Lanterns in New
York City.

In the follow-up Brightest Day event, Lightning is shown on the cover
of the upcoming JLA/JSA crossover, battling a crazed Alan Scott
alongside her teammates and the Justice League of America. Writer
James Robinson mentioned that he specifically wants to use Jennifer, and
that he considers her "a very underused, but great character".

She later appears alongside fellow teen superheroines Stargirl,
Supergirl, and Batgirl, as part of a team of heroines created by Wonder
Woman to repel an alien invasion of Washington D.C.

Lightning later plays a key role during the team's first encounter with
the new villain Scythe, using her electrical abilities to help defeat
him. When the JSA chooses to stay and help rebuild the city of
Monument Point (which had suffered massive amounts of damage during the
battle with Scythe), Lightning is attacked and nearly killed by a
villain named Doctor Chaos., but she is eventually revived by Doctor
Fate. Chaos had been hired to evict all heroes from Monument Point.

-   Justice Society of America (vol. 3) #51

When the members of the JSA arrive at the home of Anissa Pierce and her
girlfriend Grace in an attempt to arrest the fugitive Black Lightning,
Lightning sides with her teammates and engages in a brawl with her
sister. It is revealed that there is apparently some friction between
the two siblings, with Anissa stating that Jennifer was always
considered the favorite while also expressing jealousy over Jennifer
being allowed to pursue heroics at such a young age. Doctor Fate
eventually breaks up the fight, and Black Lightning turns himself over
to the authorities.


Powers and abilities

Like her father, Lightning possesses the power of electricity
manipulation. She is able to generate electrical energy and project it
as concentrated bolts from her hands. Lightning is also able to fly by
generating a localized electromagnetic repulsion field. When manifesting
her powers, Jennifer's body is surrounded by a glowing electrical aura
with lightning-like spikes on her head and back. This effect is
involuntary, though she has demonstrated the ability to revert to a more
human appearance.

Still a young inexperienced heroine, Lightning does not have full
control of her powers and will short out any electronic device or
appliance she touches. It is unknown at this time if further training
and refinement of her powers will result in any other abilities.


In other media

Television

-   An adolescent version of Lightning appears in the "Thunder and
    Lightning" shorts of the  Nation Shorts voiced by Masasa Moyo.

