LOBO is a fictional character that appears in comic books published by
. The Lobo character was created by Roger Slifer and Keith
Giffen, and first appeared in Omega Men #3 (June 1983). Lobo is an
alien born on the utopian planet of Czarnia, and works as an
interstellar mercenary and bounty hunter.

Lobo was first introduced as a hardened villain in the 1980s, but soon
fell out of use with writers. He remained in limbo until his revival as
an anti-hero biker with his own comic in the early 1990s. Writers
attempted to use Lobo as a pastiche of the 1990s trend towards "grim and
gritty" superhero stories, epitomised by such  characters
as Cable, Wolverine, and Punisher, but was instead enthusiastically
accepted by fans of the trend. This popularity led to the character
having a much higher profile in  stories from then on, as well
as starring roles in various series in the decades since.


Character development

The character enjoyed a short run as one of ’s most popular characters
throughout the 1990s. This version of Lobo was intended to be an
over-the-top parody of the  superhero Wolverine. In issue
#41 of Deadpool, a separate  series, Lobo was parodied as "Dirty
Wolff", a large blue-skinned man who drove a demonic motorcycle. He was
also parodied in the Image Comics series Bloodwulf and as "Bolo" in
the Topps Comics series Satan's Six.

In a 2006 interview, Keith Giffen said, "I have no idea why Lobo took
off... I came up with him as an indictment of the Punisher, Wolverine
hero prototype, and somehow he caught on as the high violence poster
boy. Go figure."

Lobo is the favorite  character of Stan Lee.


Publication history

Lobo was introduced as a regular character in Keith Giffen and Roger
Slifer’s Green Lantern and Teen Titans spin-off Omega Men. At
that time, he was a Velorpian whose entire race had been exterminated by
Psions and was partnered with Bedlam, whom he later killed; his origin
was later retconned.

After a well-received appearance in Justice League International, Lobo
became a regular character in L.E.G.I.O.N._ and its successor series
R.E.B.E.L.S._.

In 1990, he appeared in his four-issue own miniseries, Lobo: The Last
Czarnian, plotted by Giffen, written by Alan Grant and with art by
Simon Bisley, which changed his origin story: he became the last
Czarnian after violently killing every other member of the species. That
miniseries led to many subsequent miniseries and specials, including
Lobocop, a RoboCop parody; Blazing Chain of Love, in which he is
sent on a job to a harem; Paramilitary Christmas Special, in which he
is contracted by the Easter Bunny to assassinate Santa Claus;
Infanticide, where he kills his daughter and all of his other
offspring that she has gathered to try to kill him; Convention
Special, a send-up of comic book conventions; and Unamerican
Gladiators, in which Lobo takes part in a deadly televised game show.
Simon Bisley's dark humor fits well within the pages of his artwork by
having countless mutilations of background characters occurring in each
panel. Lobo also starred in his own  title for 64 issues, from 1993 to
1999.

Lobo has regularly made guest appearances in other series, even in
cross-company interactions with such non- characters as The Mask,
Judge Dredd, and the Authority. During the  vs.  crossover
series, he fought Wolverine and lost due to popular vote by fans. He
also appeared very briefly in the JLA/Avengers inter-company
crossover, and is shown fighting members of the Shi'ar Imperial Guard,
although the outcome is not shown.

Lobo has made a few appearances in the animated series of the
1990s/2000s-era  animated universe. At one point, an animated series
and video game starring the character were to be released, but both were
canceled.


Fictional character biography

Lobo is a Czarnian with exceptional strength and fortitude. He enjoys
nothing better than mindless violence and intoxication, and killing is
an end in itself; his name roughly translates as "he who devours your
entrails and thoroughly enjoys it." He is arrogant and self-centered,
focusing almost solely on his own pleasures, although he proudly lives
up to the letter of his promises - but always no more or no less than
what he promised. Lobo is the last of his kind, having committed
complete genocide by killing all the other Czarnians for fun. As
detailed in Lobo #0, Lobo unleashed a violent plague of flying
scorpions upon his home world, killing most of its citizens.

[The first appearance of Lobo.]

Physically, Lobo resembles a chalk-white human male with, generally,
blood-red pupilless eyes with blackened eyelids. Like many comic book
characters, Lobo's body is highly muscular, though his initial
appearances were much leaner and less bulky compared to later
iterations. Originally portrayed with neatly trimmed purple-grey hair,
this was soon redesigned as a gray mullet, later a long, straggly,
gray-black mane, dreadlocks, and more recently a pompadour. Similarly,
the orange-and-purple leotard he wore in his first few appearances was
replaced by black leather biker gear, and later replaced with both the
robes of his office as a putative Archbishop and pirate-themed gear,
then later a sleeveless flight suit/jumpsuit. His arsenal includes
numerous guns and a titanium chain with a hook on his right arm. Extra
weapons may include "frag grenades" and giant carving blades.

Lobo has a strict personal code of honor in that he will never violate
the letter of an agreement- saying in Superman: TAS that "The Main
Man's word is his bond,"- although he may gleefully disregard its
spirit. He is surprisingly protective of space dolphins, some of which
he feeds from his home. A few have been killed in separate incidents,
which he avenges with his usual violence.

Lobo's friends include Dawg, a bulldog that he often claims is not his
when it gets into trouble; Jonas Glim, a fellow bounty hunter; Ramona, a
bail bondswoman/hairdresser; and Guy Gardner, whose friendship was
cemented when Lobo came by Guy's bar Warriors where he gave Guy one of
his Space Hogs and the skull of the Tormock leader Bronkk.

Dawg is stomped to death by Lobo in Lobo #58 in which he again claims
to Superman that the dog is not his, this for the final time. Somehow,
Dawg later appears alongside Lobo when Lobo goes to Earth to fight Green
Lantern and Atrocitus. His enemies include the do-gooder superhero
parody Goldstar, Loo, Vril Dox, Bludhound, Etrigan the Demon, and
General Glory. Lobo generally tries to kill anyone he's hired to
capture, including his fourth-grade teacher named Miss Tribb, his
children, Santa Claus, and Gawd. Although his main targets are Superman
and Deathstroke, whom he has defeated a countless number of times. Lobo
frequents a restaurant, Al's diner, where he often flirts with Al's only
waitress, Darlene. Though Lobo protects these two from frequent danger,
he doesn't seem to understand the distress caused by his tendency to
destroy the diner. Al and Darlene later prosper due to Lobo's appetite
for destruction; he destroys the city, except for the diner, leaving
hordes of construction workers only one place to eat lunch. He also ends
up destroying a diner Al gives to him as part of a birthday celebration.

The last revelation of Lobo and the diner appears to be in the pages of
Lobo One Million, where his last adventure is depicted. By the time of
the action, he's already morbidly obese and working as a carnival
attraction, scaring tourists into leaving their money behind. Then, a
sexy client appears to offer him a last job: finding a legendary
evildoer named Malo Perverso. At the prospect of a last well-paid job
and a chance to score with the client, Lobo quickly agrees, and again
invades the diner to use their Tesseract teleporter to reach his gear.
It is revealed then the "client" is none other than Darlene, who wanted
to see him back in his prime rather than see him sink even deeper into
sloth.

After reaching his gear, Lobo invades the HQ of the JLWB (Justice League
of Wannabes) and crushes all opposition in order to hack their files on
Malo Perverso. There, he is attacked by Perverso himself, who then
reveals himself to be Clayman, the team's shapeshifter, who admits he
impersonated Perverso to get rid of Lobo. Clayman also squeals that the
real Perverso went into a black hole. Lobo, still eager to find his
bounty, goes into the black hole. Ironically, due to Lobo's interference
in a planetary conflict in the same issue, Al later gets a package
through the Tesseract for Lobo - which promptly blows the diner up, yet
again.

At one point, Lobo has trouble with a clone of himself that had survived
previous misadventures. A battle between the two makes it unclear which
of them survived. Some fans conclude that the original Lobo was the
victor, since later in the series, Lobo removes a miniature radio which
he had surgically implanted in his head some time before the clone
fight, and only organic matter can be cloned.

The character has participated in several money-making schemes, such as
being a priest and being a pop-rock idol. Most of these schemes tend to
end with the violent deaths of nearly everyone involved. He has many
friends among the bounty hunter world, though many tend to die when they
are around Lobo, either by his hand or at the hands of enemies he faces.

Crossovers

Lobo has clashed, and cooperated, with Superman. He has also encountered
Batman a couple of times, although one of these encounters was in the
Elseworlds continuity. He has both fought and teamed up with Guy Gardner
more than once, helping him to destroy various alien threats to Earth.
Lobo often visits Warriors, Guy's bar, where he enjoys free drinks.

He fights Aquaman when a traveling space dolphin visiting Earth is
killed by Japanese fishermen. He ceases fighting when he learns Aquaman
is not only a friend to dolphins but was raised by them. "Aw, frag,"
mutters Lobo. "Now I gotta be civil." Although Lobo feels he cannot
hurt a fellow dolphin lover, he has no such mercy for the fishermen.

Lobo also has appeared with The Authority. In one such appearance, Jenny
Quantum finds a comic book detailing Lobo's murder of Santa Claus; she
experiences a fit of rage and confusion. She breaks the barrier between
her dimension and the dimension Lobo inhabits in the comic book, and
Lobo finds himself in a fight with The Authority.

Lobo has also had run-ins with Hitman, Valor, Starman, The Ray, Deadman,
Green Lantern, the JLA, StormWatch, Mister Miracle, the Legion of
Super-Heroes, Captain , Wonder Woman, Fate, Sovereign Seven,
Supergirl, and Superboy, among others.

L.E.G.I.O.N./R.E.B.E.L.S.

Lobo acts as an independent bounty hunter until tricked by Vril Dox into
nominally joining his interstellar police force, L.E.G.I.O.N._ However,
he continues solo activity, which seems to often bring him to Earth and
in conflict with its heroes. Or, as in one case, base indifference.
He remains loyal to Vril Dox after L.E.G.I.O.N. leadership is usurped by
Dox's son, until an altercation between Lobo and Dox prompts Dox to
release Lobo from his service. After this, Lobo becomes a full-time
bounty hunter again.

Li'L Lobo

In the year 2000, a magical accident transforms Lobo into a teenager. In
this condition, he joins Young Justice and eventually accompanies them
to Apokolips, where he is killed in combat. However, the aforementioned
magical accident has restored his ability to grow clones from a single
drop of blood, and millions of Lobos rush into battle against
Apokoliptian soldiers, whom the Lobo's quickly defeat. The Lobo's then
turn on each other, until only one is left; in the process, the
surviving Lobo regrows to adulthood. His time as a member of Young
Justice becomes a distant memory. An additional weaker teenage Lobo with
yellow eyes remained, however, having hidden from the fight; he rejoins
Young Justice and chooses to rename himself SLO-BO. Eventually, this
clone begins to degrade, becoming blind, and degenerating to the brink
of death. Before he can die, however, Darkseid teleports him to the
headquarters of Young Justice 1 Million in the 853rd Century, turning
him into a statue, fully conscious and aware, in the process. When Lobo
later encounters Robin and Wonder Girl again as members of the Teen
Titans, he demonstrates no recollections of them or their history
together, demonstrating that he has indeed forgotten his time as their
teammate.

52

After an extended hiatus, Lobo reappeared during the year-long
maxi-series known as 52 where he encounters a group of heroes
(consisting of Adam Strange, Animal Man, and Starfire), who find
themselves stranded in space after the events of Infinite Crisis. To
everyone's surprise, he does not kill them. Lobo professes to have found
religion, becoming the spiritual leader of the whole of sector 3500,
which was left in shambles by a still unknown assailant. He is the
current caretaker of the Emerald Eye of Ekron. After helping the lost
heroes defeat Lady Styx, he brings the Emerald Eye to the triple-headed
fish god, who agrees to release Lobo from his vow of non-violence in
exchange. When told that the Emerald Eye is the only thing that can kill
the fish god, Lobo blasts him with it.

One Year Later

Lobo appeared in "Deadly Serious", a two-part crossover miniseries with
Batman in August 2007, written and drawn by Sam Kieth. In addition, Lobo
has fought the Teen Titans and Blue Beetle in their respective titles in
order to stop a rocket for the Reach, in which he failed.

In the Reign in Hell miniseries, it is revealed that Lobo's soul was
still in Hell following a deal he made with Neron during the 1996
Underworld Unleashed. Lobo's suffering was enough to power Neron's whole
castle. Lobo was freed from his prison in a battle between Etrigan and
Blue Devil, and went on a rampage through hell to seek revenge on Neron.
In order to buy time to fully recover before battling Lobo, Etrigan
stole Blue Devil's soul and informed him that he would have to fight
Lobo to get it back. During Lobo's rampage he cut off Zatara's head,
forcing his daughter, Zatanna, to send him to the Abyss, the soul death.

Later, Lobo is shown aiding the JLA during their mission into Hell,
where he helps Fire defeat the god Plutus.

Brightest Day

In the Brightest Day crossover, Lobo appeared on Earth to capture a
bounty on Atrocitus's head. After fighting Hal Jordan, Carol Ferris
and Sinestro, he then fled, which Hal found unusual. However, it is
revealed that the fight was all staged by Atrocitus himself. As a
payment, Lobo was given a Red Lantern ring. The 2014-introduction
Lobo, holding the severed head of what was then established as an
impostor Lobo. Art by Aaron Kuder.|thumb

R.E.B.E.L.S.

Still wearing his red ring on a chain around his neck, Lobo is recruited
from a bar by Vril Dox, who requires his help battling his "father"
Brainiac and the Pulsar Stargrave, a captured weapon. Even losing his
spacehog, Lobo saves the planet Colu, but with Brainac and Pulsar
Stargrave escaping. Lobo became a senior member of Vril Dox's Legion
based on the planet Rann. Lobo was the key to defeating Starro the
Conqueror and his lieutenants, ensuring security for Rann, the Vega
System and the galaxy. Unknown to Lobo the Psions had created clones of
Lobo attempting to bring back the Czarnian race, which could make them
unstoppable, but the series ended before this was played out.

The New 52

In 2011,  rebooted the  Universe continuity in an initiative
called The New 52. A reimagined version of Lobo debuted in Deathstroke
#9, written by Rob Liefeld. This Lobo is a Czarnian slaver who killed
the rest of his race except for his beloved Princess Sheba. A second
version, claiming to be the real Lobo, was introduced in Justice
League #23.2. Cultured and well-educated, although ruthless, this Lobo
is an interstellar mercenary and bounty hunter, with a leaner physique
akin to the character's earlier appearances. This new version sets
course for Earth after discovering his counterpart, a Czarnian imposter,
had been there. A new series featuring this version of Lobo debuted in
October 2014, and was scheduled to be canceled with its December
2015 issue.


Powers and abilities

Lobo possesses extraordinary strength of undefined limits. His strength,
much like his other powers, varies greatly depending upon different
artistic interpretations by various comic book writers. In some
instances, he is depicted as being barely stronger than a human while,
in others, he demonstrates physical strength on a similar level to
Superman. He has however shown in all their meetings, to be a match in
strength for Etrigan the demon. Lobo also possesses superhuman
durability, which varies greatly as well. Lobo is depicted, in some
situations, as being injured by conventional bullets while, in other
situations, he has the physical resiliency to stand toe to toe with
Superman, survive unprotected in deep space, and withstand powerful
explosive blasts without sustaining injury. He has displayed particular
susceptibility to gaseous chemicals. In one instance, Lobo was declared
immortal; after he died and went to hell, he proved too much for the
demons, and when he was then sent to heaven, he wreaked so much havoc
that he was permanently banished from the afterlife.

In all comic books, Lobo is portrayed as a ruthless bounty hunter. He
only has one rule: once he takes a contract, he finishes it no matter
what, even if it means risking his own life. Unless he has a counter
contract for even more money, then he would fulfill the new one.

If Lobo sustains injury, his accelerated healing factor enables him to
regenerate damaged or destroyed tissue with superhuman speed and
efficiency, and little apparent pain. Lobo also is functionally
immortal. He is immune to the effects of aging and disease and has been
banned from entering either heaven or hell. As such, even though he can
sustain sufficient injury to be out of commission for quite some time,
he will apparently heal from any injury, given sufficient time. For
instance, Lobo can regenerate out of a pool of his own blood, apparently
recycling the cells.

At one time, Lobo could grow a copy of himself, possessing all of his
skills and powers, out of every drop of his blood that was spilled. This
power was removed by Vril Dox during Lobo's time with L.E.G.I.O.N., but
Lobo regained it in the series Young Justice, in which he was de-aged by
Klarion the Witch Boy and slaughtered while on a mission to Apokolips.
His blood reformed into thousands of Lobo clones who waged war on the
planet and then proceeded to murder each other until only one Lobo (the
current one) was left. One of his other clones, Slo-Bo, survived, but
later began to fall apart until being dealt with by Darkseid. In 52,
he again regenerated from a pool of blood, but no clones were created so
he no longer appears to retain this ability.

Lobo possesses an amazingly developed sense of smell, which allows him
to track objects between solar systems, as well as a separate tracking
ability enabling him to track an individual across galactic distances.

He is a formidable combatant with expertise in multiple forms of armed
and unarmed combat. His favorite weapon is a large titanium alloy chain
with a large gutting hook connected at the end, often referred to as
"the garrote", that he keeps wrapped around his right wrist. At times,
he also uses high-grade explosives and advanced firearms.

Despite his violent and loutish nature, Lobo seems to have a
genius-level intellect in matters of destruction and violence. He can
create complex virulent agents and the corresponding antidotes; in one
version of his backstory, he released such a plague on Czarnia as a
science project, resulting in the deaths of the entire population in the
span of one week.

His vehicle, some sort of space-faring motorcycle (the "Space Hog"),
often accompanies him. It is his own design and, despite its size, it is
capable of extended and speedy travel throughout space. Further, it
protects those in its immediate vicinity from the hazards of space and
somehow permits the ability to breathe and speak. He was also able to
scavenge parts from a destroyed time hopper and attach them to his own
bike, producing a working time machine. Lobo is fluent in many alien
languages (according to Lobo, 17,897) and extremely knowledgeable in
the locations and cultures of worlds without external references.

It is not fully known the extent to which his powers are common for his
race or unique to him. In the miniseries The Last Czarnian and
elsewhere, it is stated that the cloning and healing abilities are
traits possessed by all Czarnians, as is the apparent ability to survive
in the vacuum of space.


Other versions

-   In the two-part Lobo vs The Mask crossover, Lobo is hired for the
    sum of one billion credits by a council of survivors of several
    devastated planets to track down the individual responsible. His
    trail leads to Earth, where Lobo encounters the current wearer of an
    ancient mask. The resulting battle destroys Manhattan and leaves
    Lobo as nothing but a severed head, waiting for his body to re-grow.
    Big Head, convincing Lobo he wants the previous mask wearer, agrees
    to a team-up to hunt the "Ultimate Bastich" down. Big Head leads
    Lobo on a chase to nowhere, killing even more and blowing up a solar
    system in the process. Fed up with Big Head, Lobo uses a special
    "guilt grenade" to force the wearer to remove the mask so that he
    can use it himself. Lobo promptly kills an entire intergalactic bar
    full of aliens, and is sucked into a wormhole on his ride
    through space. Landing in parts unknown, Lobo/Mask heads to a single
    planet where, crashing the 400th annual Feel Good Games, he insults
    a king, and proceeds to kill numerous people. A crayon drawing left
    on his bike with the words "YOU SMELL" incurs his wrath, and he
    destroys numerous planets hunting down the one who drew the
    insulting picture. Waking up one day, Lobo finds himself back on
    Earth, and realizes the mask used him. Tossing it away, he leaves
    only to pass himself arriving on Earth. As it turns out, the
    wormhole sent him back in time roughly one month. He had been hired
    to hunt himself, and the alley where he dumped the mask was the same
    alley where the pickpocket would find it in Part 1. However, Lobo
    breaks the time loop, literally turning himself in as he shaves the
    other Lobo's head and paints him green for the reward money.
    Meanwhile, Big Head, realizing that Lobo has broken the loop,
    decides to have fun of its own on Earth.
-   In the Amalgam Comics universe, Lobo is fused with Howard the Duck
    to become Lobo the Duck.
-   "Coach Lobo" sends the Tiny Titans on a race around the world in
    issue #16 of that series. In a tirade about the laziness of his
    students, Lobo reveals that, "Back on my planet, when I was a kid, I
    had to run to school uphill both ways!... Uphill in the rain and
    snow together! Volcanoes were erupting all around us! Dolphins were
    everywhere! All we had for fun was exercise!" Coach Lobo also
    appeared in issues #18, #22, #32, #41, and #45.


In other media

Film

Live Action

Theatrical Release in development

-   In September 2009, Warner Bros. announced that Guy Ritchie would
    direct a live-action adaptation featuring the comic book character.
    Variety described the premise: "Lobo is a seven-foot tall,
    blue-skinned, indestructible and heavily muscled anti-hero who
    drives a pimped out motorcycle, and lands on Earth in search of four
    fugitives who are bent on wreaking havoc. Lobo teams with a small
    town teenage girl to stop the creatures." Ritchie was scheduled to
    begin production of Lobo in early 2010 and bring an "irreverent,
    gruff tone" to the film as he did with previous films Lock, Stock
    and Two Smoking Barrels and Snatch. The studio was aiming for a
    PG-13 rating from the Motion Picture Association of America. In
    early 2010, it was reported that Ritchie had left the project in
    order to pursue working on a sequel to his hit film Sherlock
    Holmes instead. The future of the Lobo feature film project is
    currently undetermined. In 2012, Deadline reported that Brad
    Peyton would write and direct the film. In July 2012, Dwayne
    Johnson announced via Twitter that he was in talks with Joel Silver
    and Brad Peyton to portray Lobo. However on February 18, 2013,
    Johnson had left the project to play another villain of ,
    Black Adam in Shazam. On March 16, 2016, The Wrap reported
    that Jason Fuchs will be writing the film's script.

Non-Theatrical Release

[Andrew Bryniarski as "Lobo" in the AFI student film, The Lobo
Paramilitary Christmas Special.]

-   In 2002, Scott Leberecht directed a film adaptation of The Lobo
    Paramilitary Christmas Special as part of the American Film
    Institute's director's studies program. Andrew Bryniarski stars as
    Lobo, with Tom Gibis as the Easter Bunny and Michael V. Allen as
    Santa Claus. The film was made with a budget of $2,400, although
    many professionals donated time and effort. It premiered at the AFI
    in May 2002.

Animation

-   In the direct-to-DVD film Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths, an
    Earth-Three version of Lobo appears as Warwolf. He is first seen
    under a computer display, listing everyone employed under the
    corresponding Crime Syndicate of America member. He is employed
    under Johnny Quick's line of command. Later he has a full cameo as
    Martian Manhunter and the Flash attack the Earth-Three versions of
    Green Arrow and Black Canary. He is seen being defeated by Martian
    Manhunter, and, along with Warwolf, is ultimately bested when the
    ship he is standing on is sunk, and was not to be seen again for the
    duration of the film. This version of Lobo is seen wearing his
    custom leather vest, but wears no shirt underneath the jacket. He
    also seems to have a lighter voice than he is commonly depicted
    having.

Television

[Lobo as he appears in Superman: The Animated Series.]

-   Lobo first appeared on the small screen in the series Superman: The
    Animated Series, voiced by Brad Garrett. As in the comics, Lobo
    possesses exceptional strength and durability, as well as his usual
    over-the-top arsenal of weapons. The healing powers and advanced
    senses that he possesses in the comics are not shown, although he
    never sustains injuries as severe as he does in the comics. Lobo's
    gutting hook is used only twice in his appearances in Superman: The
    Animated Series episode "The Main Man", and it is not used for
    combative purposes, due to SAP as well as difficulty animating the
    weapon. He mostly uses a crowbar, or simply his fists, for
    bludgeoning his opposition. In the episode "The Main Man", Lobo is
    hired by an alien named the "Preserver" to capture Superman and add
    him to the Preserver's collection of rare and endangered species.
    Preserver decides to add Lobo to his collection as well, since Lobo
    was also the last of his own race. Superman and Lobo join forces
    to escape. In return, Lobo promises to leave Earth alone. Lobo
    briefly appears in "Warrior Queen" in which Maxima falls in love
    with Superman. After Superman leaves, Lobo arrives in Maxima's
    throne room with a bounty on De'Cine and Maxima starts to get
    obsessed with Lobo.
-   Lobo eventually returns to Earth in the Justice League episode
    "Hereafter", with Brad Garrett reprising his role. Believing that
    Superman has died, Lobo wants to join the Justice League, insisting
    that only he could take Superman's place. The League reluctantly
    allowed Lobo to help them for a short time while they deal with a
    large number of supervillains running amok in Metropolis. Lobo
    manages to trap Kalibak under a pile of cars. In the end,
    Superman returns to the present where he prevents Deadshot from
    assassinating Batman. When Lobo states that the whole Justice League
    is together again, Superman tells him to count again, then fired
    him, stating that he is not Justice League material, and to
    clear out. Displeased with the thanks he got, Lobo gets on his
    hovercycle and tells the Justice League that the next time they need
    help, they shouldn't ask him. As Lobo takes off, Martian Manhunter
    shouts, "We didn't ask you this time!"
-   Lobo makes a cameo appearance in Legion of Super Heroes
    episode "Legacy".
-   Lobo appears in the Young Justice episode "Happy New Year!",
    voiced by David Sobolov. He first appears to attack the United
    Nations where he has a contract to target Secretary-General Tseng,
    only to be attacked by the Team's Beta Squad (which at that time
    consisted of Batgirl and Wonder Girl). During the fight, it is
    discovered that Tseng is secretly a Krolotean in disguise after
    ripping his disguise in half. Lobo then leaves with the Krolotean in
    order to give it to the people who hired him to capture it.
-   Lobo is indirectly mentioned as a teaser in the Supergirl episode
    "Truth, Justice and the American Way" where Alex Danvers ask Martian
    Manhunter if he thinks a certain intergalactic bounty hunter is
    on Earth. Specifically, the exchange, taking place after their
    primary target was abducted by an enigmatic figure, had them
    speculating that the kidnapper was a bounty hunter who came to
    Earth, and Martian Manhunter ruled Lobo out since "if he were in
    town, [the Department of Extranormal Operations would] know."

Video games

-   In 1996, Ocean Software was developing a Lobo game for the Super NES
    and Mega Drive/Genesis. It was a fighting game, featuring many
    characters from Lobo's comic stories. A 6-page preview of the game
    was featured in the video game magazine Nintendo Power, Volume 84
    (May 1996). As previewed, the game still had some bugs and
    lacked sound. The game was canceled before its release. A prototype
    of the finished Genesis version has been found and a ROM image of it
    was released on September 15, 2009 by a Spanish Sega community.
-   Lobo appears in Injustice: Gods Among Us, with David Sobolov
    reprising his voicing role. During Doomsday's single-player ending
    where he had converted Earth to resemble prehistoric Krypton,
    Doomsday ventures into space hoping to find a worthy adversary in
    Lobo after hearing about him. Lobo later became the game's first
    DLC character. In Lobo's ending, Lobo became one of the richest men
    in the universe where he assassinates those who ran afoul of the
    High Councillor and then planned to kill the New Gods of New Genesis
    when bounties became scarce.
-   Lobo appears as a playable character in Lego Batman 3: Beyond
    Gotham, voiced by Travis Willingham.

Books

Lobo is the main character of the novel  Universe: Last Sons,
written by Alan Grant, published in 2006. The book also features the
Martian Manhunter and Superman as protagonists. The three main
characters are the "last sons" of their respective races, and are
gathered by an alien collector who seeks to destroy all life, choosing
to go after these three to start his collection until they escape and
defeat him.

