MACHISTE is a supporting character in the Warlord a sword and sorcery
comic book published by . Machiste debuts in Warlord #2
(March 1976), and was created by Mike Grell.


Fictional character biography

Machiste is the wandering King of KIRO in the other dimensional realm of
Skartaris, land of endless sun. He met Travis Morgan when they both
served as galley slaves aboard the ship Gyrfalcon. They quickly became
close friends and both were sold as gladiators. Former gladiator Shebal
trained them both in the arts of the arena. Travis Morgan led 200
gladiators (including Machiste) in a massive revolt. These rebel
gladiators became the core of an army that Travis Morgan successfully
led against the tyrannical king of Thera, his future archenemy DEIMOS.
It was as the leader of this new army, that Travis first became known as
the Warlord. Deimos had intended to conquer the rest of Skartaris using
the advanced technology of ancient Atlantis.

[Warlord #2, Art by Mike Grell] After Deimos' defeat, Machiste returned
to his home kingdom of KIRO. While there he found an ancient cursed axe
containing a demonic entity which took possession of his mind. The
demon's will prevented Machiste from letting go of the axe. In issue #7
Travis Morgan arrived in Kiro. Machiste revealed to him the secret he
had hinted at during their captivity- - Machiste was the King of Kiro.

Seeing that the axe's influence was making Machiste more and more
tyrannical as well as violent, Travis was forced to remove his friend's
right hand, thus severing the axe's spell. Machiste replaced his lost
right hand with a spike studded mace. This is also the first meeting of
Machiste and his future lover Mariah Romanova. Mariah was a Moscow
University archaeology student and Olympic fencer who had recently
stumbled into Skartaris at Travis Morgan's side. Machiste shaves his
head in issue #10 because the golden crown of Kiro he wears doesn't fit
comfortably over his hair. [Machiste and the cursed axe, Art by Mike
Grell] Machiste leaves Kiro to accompany Morgan and Mariah in Morgan's
search for Tara. Both Mariah and Machiste fall through a time warp and
end up back in Skartaris' "Age of Wizard Kings", when Skartaris was
known as Wizard World. While there they meet Eran Shadowstorm the
Centaur a Protector of the Realm, Mongo Ironhand the Wizard, and Rostov
the werewolf. While stranded in the past Machiste and Mariah became
lovers.

Later Machiste and Mariah returned to "present day" Skartaris. Upon
their return they were enlisted in Travis Morgan's war against New
Atlantis. Once New Atlantis was defeated Machiste returned to Kiro and
his duties as king. Later on, due to Mariah throwing herself at Travis
Morgan after Tara's death, there is a falling out between Machiste and
Morgan, but the good friends eventually repair their friendship.

In Secret Six, Machiste is ruler of the land that Bane wishes to
conquer for the United States of America. He fights against the
invaders, but eventually realises that he cannot win without the aid of
Deimos.


Other versions

Flashpoint

In the alternate timeline of the Flashpoint event, Machiste is a
member of Deathstroke's pirates. During an ambush by Aquaman and
Ocean Master, Machiste was about to strike at Aquaman, but Aquaman
slashes his throat with his own prosthesis axe.


In other media

Television

-   Machiste appeared in the Justice League Unlimited episode "Chaos
    at the Earth's Core" voiced by Phil LaMarr.
-   Machiste made a brief appearance in the  Original Movie Justice
    League: The Flashpoint Paradox. Unlike in the comics Machiste has
    his neck snapped by Aquagirl.

Toys

-   He also had an action figure in the "Lost World of the Warlord" line
    from Remco in 1982.

