MADAME XANADU is a fictional character, a comic book mystic published by
. The character is identified with Nimue, the sorceress from
Arthurian mythology made popular by Sir Thomas Malory's Le Morte
d'Arthur.


Publication history

The character debuted in Doorway to Nightmare #1, (February 1978). The
character was designed by cover artist Michael William Kaluta at the
request of Joe Orlando (editor), based on Kaluta's unnamed host
character (later known as Charity in the pages of Starman) from the 
Comics mystery title Forbidden Tales of Dark Mansion (seen only on
that title's indicia page) and the person of Cathy Ann Thiele. The
original storyline was developed by David Michelinie and Val Mayerik.

Doorway to Nightmare, introduced in 1978, was the last of the 
"Mystery" line of titles in the 1970s that became the forerunner of
Vertigo. It did not have a consistent creative team—the intent was to
create writer-artist pairings that had never occurred before, except for
the cover art of Michael William Kaluta. Madame Xanadu, the star of
the series, was not a host but an active participant, albeit never the
main character in her stories. The Phantom Stranger was criticized
heavily in letter columns for taking a similar approach. The Doorway
to Nightmare strip lasted for ten issues: five in its own series, four
in The Unexpected, and one issue of Madame Xanadu, which was 's
second direct sales only comic. The first issue of Madame Xanadu
bore little difference from an issue of Doorway to Nightmare. There
were several requests to reprint it in letter columns of The Spectre,
but they were refused because that issue gave little background as to
her character, although it did introduce Ishtar to the  Universe, who
dated Destruction.

Madame Xanadu was a regular supporting cast member in volumes 2 and 3 of
The Spectre, those versions written by Doug Moench (31 issues,
1987–1989) and John Ostrander (62 issues, 1993–1998).

A Madame Xanadu ongoing series from Vertigo was announced at the 2007
San Diego Comic Con and started in 2008. It was written by Matt
Wagner, with art by Amy Reeder Hadley. The series also
featured art stints by Kaluta, Joëlle Jones, Marley Zarcone, Laurenn
McCubbin, Chrissie Zullo, Celia Calle, and Marian Churchland. The series
was concluded after 29 issues, the final one dated January 2011. The
series dealt with Madame Xanadu's early life from Arthurian times until
the 1960s. Starting with issue 9, the book coincided with the events of
the Golden Age  Universe.


Story structure

The Doorway to Nightmare stories were typically structured around a
protagonist stumbling upon Madame Xanadu's shop (stated to be on
"Christy Street" in the East Village (changed to Greenwich Village in
The Unexpected #192) and deciding to enter. She (usually) or he would
tell a story of romance that was frustrated by an outside element.
Xanadu, through a tarot reading, always determined this element to be of
an occult nature, then sent the protagonist to do some task in which she
would intervene with the use of her powers. Upon concluding the story,
the occult element would wind up in a mason jar in her back room. In the
first issue, she apparently became trapped in a burning building. The
central couple returns to her shop for nostalgia's sake and discovers
her to be quite alive. This was a hint at the extent of her powers. The
primary variation in the stories was what the occult threat actually
was, be it demonic forces, Asian mummies, vampires, incubi, or other
supernatural threats. In one story, she fought Azazel, but he looked
nothing like in The Sandman.

When the title was moved from its own series to a revamped, 68 page and
ad-free version of The Unexpected (the stories were actually expanded
from 17 to 22 pages with the move, part of the  Implosion), she was
shown to be friendly with Abel in the inside front covers, which may or
may not have been in continuity. She never met Abel in an actual story
until  Special Series #21, when she and the Phantom Stranger arrive
at the House of Mystery with Christmas presents.


Fictional character biography

Origin

Madame Xanadu's origins were explored in the first few arcs of her
Vertigo series. According to these stories, her full name was once Nimue
Inwudu and she is the youngest sister of Morgana (to become Morgaine Le
Fay) and Vivienne, the Lady of the Lake. The sisters are descendants of
the Elder Folk, survivors of Atlantis who evolved into the race known as
the Homo Magi.

Madame Xanadu is the same Nimue who casts an imprisoning spell on her
former lover Merlin, blaming him for manipulating Camelot and the course
of history for his own gain. Merlin has the last laugh, though, as he
succeeds in stripping her magic away from her, forcing her to use
potions to maintain her immortality. The mysterious Phantom Stranger
influences her betrayal of Merlin and the two continue to meet
throughout the centuries, sharing an ambivalent relationship. Shortly
after this, either she or the Lady of the Lake (regardless, called
"Nimue") bore a son to Kon-Sten-Tyne, an ancestor of John Constantine.
The child was left with Kon-Sten-Tyne, who sacrificed the boy as a
teenager to Eve.

Nimue wanders around the world for some time, becoming an advisor to
many great rulers. She spends time in Kublai Khan's court at Xanadu,
leading to her assumed name of "Madame Xanadu." Again she meets the
Phantom Stranger. It does not go as expected, for she learns the
Stranger walks outside of the timestream. During the French Revolution,
she attempts to advise Marie Antoinette. During this era, she is able to
regain her immortality by besting Death in a card game. Other incidents
in her long years of life include a doomed lesbian love affair during
the Spanish Inquisition.

In the 1940s, she has a sexual relationship with John Zatara, who wishes
to marry her, but she foresees his true love, and the later existence of
his daughter, Zatanna, "a love with whom she could never compete."
Despite this, she uses Zatara to trap and ensnare the Phantom Stranger,
preventing him from witnessing, and affecting, the supernatural origins
of the Spectre. This, in turn, prevents Madame Xanadu from interfering,
despite having foreseen the potential menace the unchecked Spectre would
have brought on Earth. It's revealed that Xanadu's later behavior stems
from this earlier fault, her magic parlor being devised as a way to
control the supernatural being, ultimately hoping to restrain and quell
his rage.

Eventually, Madame Xanadu decides that she wants to atone for her sins
and begins operating the fortune-telling parlor out of "the Village".
She however remains without any real magic might of her own, which has
led her to manipulate various forces in order to gain power. Having
developed herself as an advisor, she now meets clientele plagued by
supernatural problems. Although she can advise them, some force prevents
her from directly interfering in solving their troubles. If one of her
clients manages to conquer a supernatural force, she can contain that
entity in jars within her fortune parlor to prevent it from causing any
further trouble.

Later history

[Madame Xanadu #1 (1981) cover, art by Michael Kaluta.] When the
Spectre is destroyed by the Anti-Monitor, Madame Xanadu performs a magic
ritual that brings him back to existence. From that day forward she acts
as the Spectre's spiritual advisor while he is bound to the soul of Jim
Corrigan. At first, Xanadu tries to lead Corrigan astray in order to use
the Spectre force for her own agendas. She is depicted in a nude love
scene with the Spectre in the form of mist, although readers in the
letters column did not find this clear and Xanadu's nudity gratuitous.
Subsequent issues made clear that this was a romantic relationship, but
no more nudity was used.

Over the course of their affiliation however, a strange form of
friendship grows between Corrigan and Madame Xanadu. Over time, Madame
Xanadu is instrumental in ensuring the safety of Corrigan's soul,
stopping the various rampages of the Spectre, and ultimately shows up at
Jim Corrigan's funeral not as an advisor or enemy, but as his friend.
She even sheds a tear as Jim Corrigan's soul leaves the mortal plane to
go to Heaven.

She is also consulted by the Suicide Squad about the increasing
difficultly of dealing with Enchantress. She provides the Squad with a
ring and necklace that can harm the Enchantress if she tries to use her
powers against the ring-bearers' wishes.

Madame Xanadu also gives Timothy Hunter a reading, helping him along his
path as an emerging sorcerer. She also confronts Tim's companion John
Constantine, whom she believes stole a magic artifact called the Wind’s
Egg from her.

Although Madame Xanadu, among others, has no great love for or trust in
the Phantom Stranger, she is a member of the Sentinels of Magic, a loose
group of mages and mystics that are called upon to thwart Asmodel's
uprising in Hell. Nonetheless, she prefers to operate alone and is one
of the few heroes who outright refuses to ally herself with the
Stranger.

In order to gain more power, Madame Xanadu bartered her soul to the
demon Neron, who gave her three loyal demons to do her commands. At
first, the demons responded to her every whim and almost raged out of
her control. Over time, as she controlled her own emotions, she became
able to control the demons as well.

Day of Vengeance

In Day of Vengeance #2, an Infinite Crisis tie-in, the Spectre, then
unstable and believing that magic equaled evil, disabled Madame Xanadu
and took her eyes.

In the Day of Vengeance special it is revealed that Madame Xanadu is
still blind. She has regrown her eyes 14 times, only for them to be
burned out again, because the Spectre's powers are beyond hers. However,
Madame Xanadu's abode would be the rallying point of the offense against
the Spectre, gathering the Phantom Stranger, Zatanna, and Nabu.

Xanadu has also found a way around the Spectre's curse by training an
adept, Daena, to read the cards for her. Through Daena, she sees the
destruction of the world with the Spectre winning and destroying
everything. It is at her place that Nabu begins his offense against the
Spectre as well as the strategy for restoring the Rock of Eternity.

One Year Later

Madame Xanadu's standing in the new magic order has yet to be explored
in detail. However, it is known that she is still trying to cure her
blindness. She assists the Shadowpact when members of their team were
temporarily blinded by the mystical powers of the villains known as 'the
Congregation.' It is the mystical aspect that allows her to help, though
some of the group are able to heal the blindness on their own.

Madame Xanadu appears in Countdown #50, operating out of "Hokus &
Pokus Occult Curiosities" in Greenwich Village. She is unable to help
Mary  locate Captain  Jr. She does advise Mary to avoid
Gotham City, because "it isn't safe for magic."

The New 52

Madame Xanadu has resurfaced in the new continuity, the result of Barry
Allen's unintentional tampering with the timestream and the merging of
the Vertigo, WildStorm and  Universes.

In the new continuity Xanadu is no longer blind, and despite her past as
Nimue still applying, she seems to have taken a more proactive stance
during the Fall of Camelot. Instead of quietly observing like she did in
her core miniseries, she staunchly opposed the surrendering of Excalibur
to the Lady of the Lake, and then started traveling with Jason Blood,
meeting other Dark Ages based heroes and villains as Vandal Savage and
the Shining Knight. Furthermore, the Dark Ages Madame Xanadu is seen in
a relationship with both Etrigan and Jason Blood, each one believing she
was humoring the other for the sake of their forced merging.

The present-day Madame Xanadu is featured in the  Universe reboot, in
Justice League Dark, resuming her role as the keystone and supporter
of the magical community in the U. Xanadu assists the 'Dark
League' in various incidents, such as Zatanna vanishing and the
House of Mystery letting loose demonic threats in Manhattan. 

National Comics was announced on April 6, 2012, as a revival of the
anthology title, to be launched in July 2012 and to expand upon the New
52 universe by presenting single-issue stories about different 
characters, each by a different creative team. This includes Madame
X #1 by Rob Williams and drawn by Trevor Hairsine and Fiona Staples.


Powers and abilities

Madame Xanadu has a supernatural sensitivity to occult activities and
mystic phenomena. She uses tarot cards to interpret what she senses, and
is also able to tell the future of others. Xanadu can levitate objects,
teleport herself, and banish demons. Madame Xanadu's parlor is full of
magical books and objects, as well as jars containing the essences of
malevolent entities. She rarely uses these objects of power, merely
acting as a guardian of them.

Madame Xanadu is immortal, never aging and unable to die of natural
causes thanks to her deal with Death. In the  Universe, she may be
outright unkillable even by beings such as the Spectre.


Other versions

Flashpoint

In the alternate timeline of the Flashpoint, Madame Xanadu is still a
fortune-teller. Traci Thirteen teleported to where Madame Xanadu is
located and discovers that Madame Xanadu is dying. Before dying, Madame
Xanadu tells her to stop the instigated Doctor Thirteen.

Tangent Comics

In the Tangent Comics series Joker's Wild, Madame Xanadu is one of
three women who masquerade as a heroic version of the Joker.


In other media

Television

-   Madame Xanadu appears in the Young Justice episode "Denial" voiced
    by Cree Summer in an affected Creole accent. In a radical departure
    from her comic book counterpart, Xanadu is portrayed as a New
    Orleans-based con artist who uses sleight of hand tricks to swindle
    unsuspecting customers. Despite this, Kent Nelson mentions that she
    has the "perfect aura for the work". When Abra Kadabra abducts Kent
    Nelson, Madame Xanadu flees upon seeing what she just saw. The
    show's creator Greg Weisman has commented that there's "more to her
    story," implying she may reveal actual powers in a future
    episode.

Film

-   Madame Xanadu will be featured in Guillermo del Toro's upcoming
    film, based on the Justice League Dark comics.

Video games

-   Madame Xanadu's Magic Shop appears in  Universe Online. It is
    located in Metropolis' Chinatown. In the hero campaign, the players
    had to free Zatanna who is imprisoned in Madame Xanadu's Magic Shop
    the same time Felix Faust and his mages were stealing the souls of
    the citizens of Metropolis.


Collected editions

-   Madame Xanadu Vol. 1 Disenchanted (240 pages, collects Madame
    Xanadu #1-10)
-   Madame Xanadu Vol. 2 Exodus Noir (128 pages, collects Madame
    Xanadu #11-15)
-   Madame Xanadu Vol. 3 Broken House of Cards (200 pages, collects
    Madame Xanadu #16-21)
-   Madame Xanadu Vol. 4 Extra-Sensory (collects Madame
    Xanadu #22-29)


Awards

-   Madame Xanadu vol. 2 was nominated for a number of 2009 Eisner
    Awards: "Best New Series", "Best Penciller/Inker or Penciller/Inker
    Team" (Amy Reeder Hadley and inker Richard Friend) and "Best Cover
    Artist" (Hadley).
-   Eisner Award 2010 Nominee: "Best Penciller/Inker or Penciller/Inker
    Team" (Michael Kaluta), Madame Xanadu #11–15: “Exodus Noir”
    (Vertigo/).

