MADAME ZODIAC is a fictional character, a comic book witch published by
. She debuted in Batman Family #17 (April 1978), and was
created by Bob Rozakis and Don Heck.


Publication history

Madame Zodiac first appears in Batman Family #17, (April 1978) and later
returned in issue #18. She returned four years later in World's Finest
Comics #285 (November 1982) in a four issue story ending in issue #288.
The character is resurrected twenty-seven years later by Kurt Busiek,
Fabian Nicieza, and Mike Norton in issue #12 of the fifty-two page
Trinity maxi-series, (August 20, 2008), and has cameos in issues #15
(September 10, 2008), and #49 (May 9, 2009) with an offpanel mention on
the third page of issue #52 (May 27, 2009).


Fictional character biography

Batman Family

Madame Zodiac is first introduced as a "crime broker" for two Gotham
City criminals in Batman Family #17; in the story she sells her
services to Poison Ivy and Catwoman, in a role similar to that of the
Calculator (Noah Kuttler). Madame Zodiac promises both the criminals
that they will come into conflict with the Earth-Two Huntress (Helena
Wayne), Batwoman (Kathy Kane), and Batgirl (Barbara Gordon), while in
the commission of their crimes, but they would succeed. At the end of
the story Poison Ivy and Catwoman are defeated but Madame Zodiac evades
capture after stealing a powerful mystical artifact; this apparently had
been her plan all along.

She later returned in Batman Family #18. She masterminds an assault on
the Pentagon, in order to take advantage of the mystical energy
generated by a foreseen a planetary conjunction. She is able to tap into
the energies by focusing them within the largest man-made pentagram on
earth, the Pentagon. She uses her new powers to subdue the United States
Pentagon Police detail tasked with defending the facility. She is
outwitted by Batgirl, who tricks her into destroying the walls of the
pentagon courtyard thereby cutting off the source of her power, and
enabling Batgirl to capture her.

World's Finest Comics

In issue #285, Batman begins experience strange blackouts, and Superman
experiences a prophetic dream in which he witnesses Batman lying on an
altar beneath the Zodiac Idol of Doctor Zodiac. Superman briefs Batman
on his vision, but when he uses his X-Ray vision to check on Doctor
Zodiac he notices that he is still in prison. The issue reintroduces us
to Madame Zodiac and reveals her first name to be Marissa, while also
reintroducing Doctor Zodiac (Theodore Carrigan). Madame Zodiac
reveals to Doctor Zodiac that she has begun testing Batman, and that she
believes that Bruce Wayne is Batman. Superman and Batman consult with
Zatanna and give her a couple of Doctor Zodiac's mystical Zodiac Coins
hoping that she can use them to track down the Zodiac Idol. Zatanna
loses control the moment she touches the coins, and mentions a "dark
cloud" before eventually lapsing into a coma.

In issue #286, Wonder Woman takes Zatanna away to Paradise Island for
medical treatment, and Madame Zodiac reveals that she freed Doctor
Zodiac from prison and left a mystical illusion in his freed. She freed
him because she had his Zodiac Idol, but wanted access to the Zodiac
Coins that provide its power. She uses Doctor Zodiac's mystical
connection to the twelve Atlantean to steal them from the coin
collectors who currently owned them. Now possessing all twelve coins she
is able to activate the Zodiac Idol. It is also revealed that Theo
(Doctor Zodiac) and Marissa (Madame Zodiac) are now romantically
involved. Theo discovers that she has used the Zodiac Idol to contact an
ancient other-dimensional evil she refers to as her "master". Meanwhile
a dark cloud begins appearing all over the United States in various
cities including Metropolis and Gotham City. Everywhere the cloud
appears it inspires hate crimes, including the defilement of a Jewish
synagogue, and the near lynching of Lucius Fox. Meanwhile Theo (Doctor
Zodiac) is becoming concerned as Madame Zodiac's shadowy master grows in
power. Elsewhere, Green Arrow (Oliver Queen) confronts a werewolf, and
Hawkman (Katar Hol) defeats what appears to be a vampire. An unstoppable
phalanx of zombies attack a GCPD barricade in Gotham City, but are
stopped by Superman. At the end of the issue, Madame Zodiac states that
her master is now powerful enough to possess his chosen host's body.

In issue #287, the shadowy force of Madame Zodiac's master attempts to
dominate and possess Batman's mind and body. Doctor Zodiac begins
looking for a way out of his predicament; he decides against releasing a
mysterious prisoner being held at their location, a prisoner whom Madame
Zodiac fears. He relents out of fears for his own safety. Superman
checks in with Wonder Woman and she reports that Zatanna is responding
well to Purple Healing Ray treatments and is recovering from her coma.
In Gotham City, shadow minions sent by Madame Zodiac are able to capture
Batman while her master attacks his mind; he is brought through a portal
to her hidden location.

Finally in issue #288, on Paradise Island in the Bermuda Triangle,
Zatanna reveals that touching the Zodiac Coins transported her astrally
to the dark cloud's location where the other-dimensional demon nearly
killed her. Meanwhile the being whom Madame Zodiac refers to as the
"Adored One", a shadowy cloud in a crystal sphere floating above
Batman's body, releases tendrils that enter Batman's nose and mouth.
Doctor Zodiac runs away after witnessing this tableau, finally
determined to release the mysterious prisoner, but is unable to do so
due to his total lack of magical ability. Meanwhile Batman is possessed
and magical duplicates of him are created for when the Adored One burns
out his host body. Superman is teleported to their location after
chasing one of the Adored One's werewolf minions through a portal. The
possessed Batman briefly spars with Superman who uses his X-Ray vision
to discover that Batman's body is dying. Superman uses Super-Hypnosis to
free Batman's mind, causing him to expel the "shadow demon" from his
nose and mouth. Madame Zodiac is subdued by Superman, and Doctor Zodiac
tells him about the mysterious prisoner. Superman shatters the walls of
the magically sealed cell, revealing the real Madame Zodiac chained to a
wall. The Madame Zodiac that Doctor Zodiac had fallen in love with was a
magical clone. Madame Zodiac reveals that she was attacked and possessed
by the shadow demon while astrally exploring other dimensions; the
creature used the Gemini aspect of the Zodiac Idol to create her evil
duplicate. Madame Zodiac, Doctor Zodiac, and Superman confront the
duplicate and its master. Madame Zodiac's body is utterly destroyed by
her evil duplicate, and both the duplicate and Doctor Zodiac are slain
by the duplicate's nameless master. The master then has its superpowered
Batman clones attack Superman and Batman. Superman discovers that the
clones will self-destruct after extreme physical exertion, and Batman
uses the Zodiac Idol to destroy the master's containment sphere,
apparently dispersing it. The story ends with the duo leaving for a cup
of coffee.

Trinity

A woman claiming to be the original Madame Zodiac reappears in Trinity
#12 (August 20, 2008). The story has the Riddler (Edward Nigma)
consulting with Madame Zodiac in order to uncover the secret behind a
pattern of mysterious thefts; while there an antique gargoyle from
Castle Branek (home of Morgaine le Fey) comes to life and attempts to
kill him. Madame Zodiac destroys the statue and adds its cost to her
fee. She has two more minor appearances in issues 15 and 49, and a
final off-panel mention in issue #52 where it is revealed that she
"works both sides of the street too often to socialize with either
one".


Newspaper strip

In the Batman newspaper strip in 1967, an earlier Madame Zodiac was
introduced in the story “Cheap gunman” where Pretty Boy Floy employs his
sister Flo to impersonate Madame Zodiac, the personal astrologer to a
billionaire industrialist Tyrone Koom, in order to convince the
businessman to turn his company over to Pretty Boy.

