DYRK MAGZ, codenamed MAGNO, is a fictional character, a superhero in the
post-Zero Hour future of the  universe, and a former member of
the Legion of Super-Heroes.


Fictional character biography

Like Legion founder Cosmic Boy, Dyrk Magz was born on the planet Braal,
and possessed a high level of the power over magnetism that is natural
to all Braalians. He was the first candidate to distinguish himself at
the tryouts held by the Legion in Legionnaires #43; although acting
leader Live Wire was reluctant to recruit a replacement for Cosmic Boy,
who was at the time stranded in the 20th century, Dyrk's quick thinking
and willingness to take action earned him a place in the Legion and the
codename Magno.

Power loss

However, his service in the Legion was short-lived. After successfully
deterring several rejected applicants' attempt at re-opening the newly
filled membership slots, Magno and the other two new recruits, Sensor
and Umbra, joined the rest of the Legion in battling Mordru. During the
Legion's first encounter with the sorcerer, Magno saved Live Wire's
life, but the team was unable to prevent the destruction of the planet
Sklar. In the following climactic battle, although Live Wire was able to
protect Magno from an energy surge which killed Workforce member
Blast-Off, in the aftermath Dyrk's powers of magnetism were entirely
gone.

Dyrk chose to return home to Braal, but found that control over
magnetism was taken for granted by native Braalians and was a constant
reminder of his loss. None of the many specialists he saw there were
able to reverse or even explain the loss of his powers. Eventually Live
Wire was able to convince him to return to the Legion by offering the
newly finished Outpost Allon as a sort of neutral ground. After the
time-lost Legionnaires returned from the 20th century, Dyrk volunteered
to stay on as part of the Outpost's support staff, handling monitor duty
and the administration of the Outpost.

In this capacity, Dyrk remained with the Legion for some time, appearing
only periodically to pass along important information or to be asked for
advice by Legionnaires like Star Boy and Ferro when they had concerns
about their powers. When a lab accident turned the Legionnaires on the
Outpost into Bizarros, the reversal temporarily returned his powers of
magnetism at full strength and he referred to himself as the "Legion
receptionist and most powerful member," but after Invisible Kid restored
him and the other affected Legionnaires to normal he was left powerless
once more. Dyrk also developed a crush on XS, and the two of them dated
briefly before the onset of the Blight.

Dyrk was instrumental in Brainiac 5's strategy to defeat Tharok when the
Fatal Five attacked Outpost Allon, as Tharok had not taken him into
consideration and did not bother tracking his movements. When the Blight
attacked, however, he was among the Legionnaires taken by it and
presumed dead until its defeat.

Science Police

Upon the disbanding of the Legion after the Blight and the loss of
Outpost Allon, Dyrk chose to join the Science Police, following in the
footsteps of his older brother Omar. He appeared once more in Legion
Worlds #3 at the beginning of his assignment to his home planet,
unwittingly becoming involved in an operation of the re-forming Legion
when he chose to arrest Cosmic Boy for vigilantism, which had at the
time been outlawed by the United Planets. Upon learning that Cosmic Boy
had intentionally gotten himself arrested in order to steal a new
faster-than-light ship to allow the Legion mobility, Dyrk agreed to
cover for his former teammate, on the condition that he be brought in on
everything when circumstances allowed.

That apparently never came to pass, as Dyrk did not appear again in the
post-Zero Hour run of the Legion of Super-Heroes comics, and has not
appeared in any subsequent versions of the Legion.


Powers and abilities

Currently none, formerly the ability to generate and control magnetic
fields.

