The MAJOR VICTORY name has been used by three fictional characters in
the  universe. The name was first used by a character in
Batman and The Outsiders Annual #1 (1984). He was affiliated with
groups like Force of July, and Suicide Squad.

The next character to use the Major Victory name first appeared in
Adventures of Superman #612 (March 2003). He appeared as a background
character in a few Superman stories of the time. To date, the other
identity of this character has not been revealed.

The current Major Victory active in the  Universe, first appears in
the miniseries Infinite Crisis Aftermath: The Battle for Blüdhaven
(2006), also as a government operative. This Major Victory may or may
not be identical with the second Major Victory from the Superman
stories.


William Vickers

The man born WILLIAM VICKERS started out as Major Victory, when the
group known as the Force of July was founded. There was an organization
called the American Security Agency who found five willing Americans to
undergo tests and transformations to become a force for America — the
Force of July — and made no efforts to keep this a secret. With apt
codenames and a lot of pomp and circumstance, these patriots held
America's flag high as they took on missions that B. Eric Blairman
assigned to them in the name of the President. Major Victory becomes the
leader.

Infinity and the Outsiders

The Force had many successes believing that what they were doing was
absolutely right, no questions asked. Major Victory and his team are
featured in the 1987 Outsiders special, which continues in a similar
Infinity Inc. one-shot. The two teams investigate the Force's ties to
the corrupt Prime Minister of the country of Markovia. The Outsiders
member Geo-Force is the prince of that country. Major Victory leads the
assault when a combined Infinity/Outsiders team infiltrates their
California base. All the heroes are subdued. Major Victory personally
defeats the Outsider members Looker and Katana. In reference to Katana's
Asian heritage, Major Victory says "Never could figure it out. I can
understand the Jap turning against us, but Looker--she's an American!"

The Janus Directive

In a comic crossover that includes the Suicide Squad, Checkmate and
Firestorm titles called the Janus Directive, the Force of July is
drawn into a battle with the Suicide Squad. Each side believes the other
is acting against the interests of America. This is the result of plans
by Kobra, an international terrorist. The Squad kills the Force's
Mayflower, Sparkler. Blairman dies of a heart attack.

[Mourning the death of Lady Liberty
Suicide Squad #30, art by John K. Snyder]

Major Victory wants revenge against the Squad. Despite this, he serves
with them reluctantly, battling Kobra's plans which would result in the
deaths of many more innocent people. He learns Waller had orchestrated
the original fight to give the impression to outside hostile forces that
an attempt to replace Waller with a double had succeeded. Major Victory
loses his remaining teammates Silent Majority and Lady Liberty who
sacrifice themselves in attempts to stop Kobra.

He comes to have a grudging respect for Amanda Waller and her tough
ways. Afterwards, the United States government asks Major Victory to
maintain his post with the Squad and report on Waller's activities.

On The Run

The Major refuses, reminding the government that he was a civilian and
the man who provided him with the uniform and purposes in life,
Blairman, was dead. The Major was going to follow his own conscience,
and the government could not control that. Major Victory went
underground for some time, keeping his activities covert, especially
since at that time the Squad was disgraced and Waller was in jail,
serving a one-year prison term.

Eventually Major Victory returns to public duty. He reunites with the
Suicide Squad, under Black Adam's command, to help stop Circe from her
holy war against the Earth and all humanity. It was during this mission
that he met and was recruited by the Captains of Industry. He served
with that team until its dissolution.

Eclipso

Bill is later seen amongst a group of heroes assembled by Amanda Waller
to invade the island stronghold of Eclipso, a villain that can take over
minds. This group of heroes is called the Shadow Fighters.

In issue #13 of the Eclipso series, several of the Shadow Fighters
make their move. Eclipso easily moves among them, killing them one by
one. Bill, side by side with the older hero Steel, is beaten to death by
multiple Eclipso bodies.

His body, and the bodies of the other dead heroes, are retrieved in a
risky mission by several surviving Shadow Fighters.


Replacement in Metropolis

A new Major Victory who, like his predecessor, has links to the United
States government, appeared in the city of Metropolis a few years later.
He was one of the first victims of the Hollow Men, drained by them of
all color and energy, but he was later restored. He had but a few
appearances in the Superman stories of the time.


S.H.A.D.E. agent

Revealed in Infinite Crisis Aftermath: The Battle for Blüdhaven #1, a
new Major Victory was created by S.H.A.D.E. at some point before the
Infinite Crisis for the American government, leading into a remake of
the Force of July named Freedom's Ring, which included new versions of
Lady Liberty and Silent Majority. This Major Victory may or may not be
identical with the above mentioned Major from the Superman stories.

Freedom's Ring was called in on orders from the government to take
control of the situation in Blüdhaven, serving as a meta police group to
keep other metas out of the city. Freedom's Ring eventually ran into a
group calling themselves the Nuclear Legion, themselves on orders from
the Secret Society of Super Villains to investigate a radiation spike in
Blüdhaven. In the aftermath of the fight, Silent Majority II and Lady
Liberty II were killed, and Major Victory's superior Father Time denied
him backup, leaving him alone against the Nuclear Legion and the Atomic
Knight.

This Major Victory shares a number of traits with his original namesake;
blond hair, athletic physique, the original's arrogance and allegiance
to the American government. This version's power suit also exhibits the
same blue-white energy blasts and enhanced strength as the previous
version. According to him he has a history in "kicking butt in seven
different countries", and like Vickers this Major Victory seems to have
developed a form of conscience, displayed in his wondering about the
government's experimentation on refugees.

In an attempt to control Major Force's battle lust, Major Victory
instead wound up having his arm ripped off and being beaten with it by
Major Force. Major Victory reappears with his arm in issue #7.


Powers and abilities

-   None of the Majors Victory are naturally in possession of meta-human
    powers; their superhuman abilities come from the special suits
    they wear. They are also trained to the peak of human perfection.
-   The original Major Victory also had a charismatic personality that
    made it easy for him to lead others. In contrast, however, he was
    also arrogant and did not handle the authority of others very well.

