MALCOLM "MAL" ARNOLD DUNCAN, currently known as VOX (also known as THE
GUARDIAN, HORNBLOWER, and THE HERALD), is a fictional character,
existing in ' main shared universe. He is one of 's first
black superheroes.


Publication history

Mal Duncan made his first appearance in Teen Titans #26 and was
created by Robert Kanigher and Nick Cardy.


Fictional character biography

Pre-Crisis

[Mal Duncan, Art by Chuck Patton and Romeo Tanghal] MALCOLM "MAL"
DUNCAN saves the Teen Titans from a street gang called the Hell Hawks
by beating their leader in a boxing match. Recruited by the Teen
Titans, Mal feels unworthy due to his lack of abilities, and stows away
on a rocket flight, which nearly costs him his life. After a time,
Mal discovers a strength-enhancing exoskeleton and the costume of the
Guardian. Using these, he becomes the second GUARDIAN.

After assuming the Guardian mantle, Mal fights Azrael - The Angel of
Death. Believing it to be a hallucination, Mal is surprised to awaken
with the mystical Gabriel's Horn. Having defeated Azrael, Mal is
permitted to live, provided he never loses another fight. The horn
grants Mal unspecified powers, whenever the odds are against him in
battle. Armed with the horn, Mal assumes the name HORNBLOWER.

Mal soon returns to his Guardian identity, claiming that too many people
knew he was Hornblower. In truth, the Horn had been stolen. He
marries Karen Beecher (Bumblebee), before moving to California. He is an
accomplished jazz musician and owns a nightclub named "Gabriel's
Horn".

Post-Crisis

Following the Crisis on Infinite Earths, Mal's uncostumed adventures
are unchanged. However, in post-Crisis canon, he never took the identity
of Guardian, and the Gabriel's Horn is given a very different origin.
While the other Titans are on a mission, Mal inadvertently releases an
old villain, the Gargoyle (formerly Mr. Twister), from Limbo. He
recaptures the villain, but finds the plans for a high-tech horn that
would create spatial warps. With the help of Karen, he builds the horn
and takes the identity of HERALD. However, the Gargoyle implanted a
computer virus into the horn that weakens the boundaries between the
mortal world and Limbo, so he and his master, the Antithesis, will
eventually escape. When Mal discovers this, he destroys the horn. He and
Karen retire from super heroics, and move to California.

While it seemed first that the introduction of the Herald identity
retconned away the Hornblower name, later issues of Dan Jurgens' Teen
Titans run confirmed that Mal had used the name Hornblower as well.

During the JLA/Titans event, Mal acquires a new Gabriel's Horn,
and later, he and Bumblebee join the short-lived Titans LA. In the
Titans Tomorrow storyline, the Mal of the alternate future becomes
president of the Eastern United States.

When Doctor Light captures Green Arrow, taking him as a hostage and
demanding to see the Titans (a plot to take revenge on the team that had
often humiliated him), Mal, Bumblebee, and about two dozen other former
Titans are assembled to fight him. He and Bumblebee then join a team
of heroes gathered by Troia to embark on an ominous mission into deep
space during Infinite Crisis. The group eventually encounters a rift
in the universe caused by Alexander Luthor, who is re-creating the
multiverse and restructuring it to create the "perfect" universe—a plan
that would lead to the deaths of billions of people, and the entire
post-crisis  Universe. The team of heroes in space is able to
temporarily stop Luthor, but in the resulting chaos they are scattered;
some are killed, while others go missing for varying lengths of time,
including Mal and Karen.

52

Four weeks after disappearing in space, Mal is rescued from a Zeta Beam
transport accident. His lungs and vocal cords were damaged after the
Gabriel's Horn blew up in his face. Mal's body rejected the cybernetic
grafting of parts from the Red Tornado until Steel used his Pseudocyte
technology to permanently graft the parts into Mal's body.

One Year Later

One whole year after the events in Infinite Crisis, Mal has joined the
Doom Patrol alongside his wife Bumblebee. Now going by the
codename VOX, Mal speaks with a synthesized voice box which can create
unusually strong hypersonic blasts and open dimensional portals,
wormholes, and vortexes similar to the Gabriel Horn. Later, in an issue
of the newest Doom Patrol series, Mal and Karen are now divorced.

Following the disbanding of the Doom Patrol, Bumblebee appears as one of
the former Titans who arrives at Titans Tower to repel Superboy-Prime
and the Legion of Doom.

New 52

In the rebooted New 52 continuity, Mal is introduced as an award-winning
film composer. It is implied that as a teen, he may have had some
connection to the original Teen Titans.


Powers and abilities

Formerly, his Gabriel Horn could open up multi-dimensional portals, and
generate unusually strong hypersonic blasts. He now relies more on his
artificial lungs and voice box to achieve the same destructive,
deafening sonic/audio effects. He also has a background in kickboxing,
and hand-to-hand combat, and is in exceptional physical condition.


In other media

Television

-   The Herald first appears in the Teen Titans episode "Calling All
    Titans" voiced by Khary Payton. Unlike in the comic books, Herald
    wears a mask. Blowing his horn allows him to open circular rifts,
    wormholes and portals into other worlds, planets, realms (or other
    places in his present dimension, including outer space itself).
    Herald is an honorary Titan, and fights off See-More and Warp. While
    doing so, his communicator is disabled. In "Titans Together," he
    teamed up with Jericho, Pantha, Más, and Beast Boy in a rescue
    mission to save the remaining Titans. They were overpowered, but
    reinforcements arrived. The Herald used his horn to get rid of Punk
    Rocket and the dragon Malchior. He also saved the Titans by
    teleporting the Brain's fusion bomb into outer space.
-   Mal Duncan appears in the Young Justice episode "Targets" voiced
    by Kevin Michael Richardson. He is portrayed as a student at the
    high school that Conner and M'gann attend. He and Conner are shown
    to be at odds with each other, "facing him down" (as Marvin puts it)
    before class starts. He is again shown in "Secrets" at the school's
    Halloween dance where he has dressed up as "Superman, done right"
    (Superboy's costume from his original comic appearance). However, in
    this episode, he and Conner appear to be at peace with each other.
    In "Happy New Year", Mal is still with Karen who has officially
    become Bumblebee and joined the team at some point within the
    five-year gap between seasons one and two. Mal Duncan has also
    joined the team and serves as their mission coordinator. According
    to Greg Weisman, he will assume a superhero identity sometime in
    Season 2. In Season 2 in the episode "Cornered", when Despero
    locks down the Hall of Justice and disables most of the team, Mal
    dons the uniform of Guardian and engages the villain, distracting
    him long enough for Superboy, Miss Martian and Zatanna to come up
    with a plan to disable Despero. He later continues to use the
    Guardian identity for the rest of the series and is a full team
    member, presumably a superhero as well.
-   Mal Duncan is mentioned in the Flash episode "The Nuclear Man",
    with Barry Allen stating that he is playing at an underground jazz
    club in Central City that night.

Miscellaneous

-   Herald was also featured in an issue of Teen Titans Go!_ wherein he
    helped Raven find Pantha, Kole, Gnarrk, and Beast Boy. While he
    isn't married to Bumblebee in the animated continuity, their
    relationship is alluded to in #39 where Larry The Titan shoots them
    with Cupid's Love Arrows. In Teen Titans #48, he helps send
    Killowat back to his dimension in the Multiverse.

