MAN-BAT (DR. KIRK LANGSTROM) is a fictional supervillain who appears in
comics published by , usually as an adversary of Batman.
Man-Bat was created by Frank Robbins and Neal Adams, making his first
appearance in Detective Comics #400 (June 1970).


Publication history

He first appeared in Detective Comics #400 (June 1970) and was created
by Frank Robbins and Neal Adams. Man-Bat was the star of his own
eponymous series in 1975–1976, which lasted two issues before being
canceled.


Fictional character biography

DR. KIRK LANGSTROM, a zoologist specializing in the study of
chiropterology, develops an extract intended to give humans a bat's
sonar sense and tests the formula on himself because he is becoming
deaf. The extract works, but it has a horrible side effect: it
transforms him into a hideous man-sized bat. The serum also takes
away his intelligence, so he goes on a mad rampage until Batman can find
a way to reverse the effects.

Later, Langstrom takes the concoction again, and Man-Bat returns. He
also coaxes his wife, Francine Langstrom, into drinking the serum, and
she goes through the same transformation, becoming She-Bat. Together,
they terrorize Gotham City until Batman can once again restore them.

On some occasions, Langstrom takes the serum and retains enough
intelligence to work for the forces of good. During one of these periods
he works with the detective Jason Bard. On another occasion, in Action
Comics #600, Jimmy Olsen inadvertently puts Superman into a cave
occupied by Man-Bat to protect him from Kryptonite radiation that had
reached Earth following the explosion of Krypton. Man-Bat calms the
maddened Superman and then summons Hawkman, who helps Superman overcome
the radiation.

Kirk and Francine have a daughter, Becky, and a son, Aaron. Because of
the effects the serum had on Aaron's DNA, he is born with a deadly
illness. Francine turns him into Man-Bat form to save his life. This
occurred in issue three of the Man-Bat mini-series by Chuck Dixon.

Infinite Crisis and beyond

Man-Bat is sighted in Alexander Luthor, Jr.'s Secret Society of Super
Villains during the events of the 2005–2006 storyline "Infinite
Crisis".

In the aftermath of that storyline, both Kirk and Francine are shown to
be alive in the 2006 "One Year Later" storyline. Talia al Ghul ties up
and gags Francine, and then threatens to poison her if Kirk does not
give her the Man-Bat formula. After Langstrom gives her the formula, she
releases Francine as promised. Talia utilizes the Man-Bat to turn the
generic members of the League of Assassins into Man-Bat Commandos.

In Gotham Underground, Man-Bat is apprehended by the Suicide Squad.
He is one of the villains seen in Salvation Run. Francine has
appeared in Batman and the Outsiders, serving as the team's technical
advisor, and her assistant Salah Miandad operates the "blank" OMAC drone
known as ReMAC. In issue #10 of that series, Kirk appeared, seemingly
healthy and also aiding Francine.

In the 2008 miniseries Final Crisis, Man-Bat has been turned into a
Justifier and was shown attacking Switzerland's Checkmate
Headquarters.

During the 2009 "Battle for the Cowl" storyline, following Batman's
death, Kirk is haunted by nightmares of becoming Man-Bat and killing his
wife. When Francine disappears, he takes the serum and tries to follow
her. After an altercation with the Outsiders, he returns to his human
form and is captured by Doctor Phosphorus, who reveals the serum is not
necessary to trigger the change. Kirk discovers that Phosphorus has also
captured Francine, and becomes Man-Bat to save her.

During the 2009–2010 "Blackest Night" storyline, Francine tracks down
Kirk (as Man-Bat), having created a cure, and revealed that Kirk's next
transformation would be permanent if he did not drink it. Kirk
attempts to take the cure, but his Man-Bat persona will not let him.
Just as Kirk is about to drink it, Francine is wounded in the crossfire
of the battle between Black Lantern Solomon Grundy and Bizarro (the
latter of whom is already at the scene, trying to prevent Kirk from
taking the cure). Distraught at Francine's injuries, Kirk transforms
into Man-Bat, seemingly permanently.

In Batgirl (vol.3), Man-Bat is seen under the control of the
Calculator as a techno-zombie.

In the "Collision" storyline of Red Robin, following Red Robin's
actions against Ra's al Ghul and the League of Assassins, the latter
attempts to murder people related to the Bat-Family. Man-Bat, following
Red Robin's orders, protects Julie Madison, a former lover of Bruce
Wayne, against Ra's al Ghul's assassins.

The New 52

In The New 52 (a reboot of the  universe), the majority of Kirk
Langstrom's history is rebooted. The Man-Bat serum first appears in
Detective Comics #18 (May 2013). Ignatius Oglivy also comes into
possession of the Man-Bat serum which he uses as an airborne virus to
spread throughout Gotham City's "900 Block".

In Detective Comics #19 (June 2013), Kirk Langstrom first appears
where he and his wife Francine are escorted by Batwoman to Batman's
location. Langstrom reveals that he is the creator of the serum
intending to help deaf people. Taking responsibility as the creator of
the serum, he uses a sample of the serum Batman had obtained to inject
himself. This creates an anti-virus which also spreads through the air.
Unfortunately, Langstrom is turned into a Man-Bat (the last remaining
Man-Bat) as his anti-virus cures the remaining citizens of Gotham.

Langstrom re-appears in Batman Inc._ (vol. 2) #10 (June 2013)
apparently giving Batman the serum. He claims to be working on an
aerosol antidote to the serum as well.

The backup feature of Detective Comics #21 (August 2013), focuses on
Langstrom and his wife. He returns from the Man-Bat form and becomes
addicted to the Man-Bat serum, taking it every night. He apparently does
not remember his actions from the previous night yet worries that a
string of reported killings are his fault.

During the Forever Evil storyline, Man-Bat is among the villains that
were recruited by the Crime Syndicate of America to join the Secret
Society of Super Villains. Scarecrow and Man-Bat attempt to steal
the frozen Talons (assassins that are associated with the Court of Owls)
from Blackgate while Penguin is having a meeting with Bane. Bane arrives
at Blackgate as Man-Bat and his fellow Man-Bats are attempting to
transport the Talons to Mr. Freeze and is able to keep one from
leaving.

The final issues of Batman: The Dark Knight series would establish
that Kirk is the son of a corrupt wealthy pharmaceutical businessman
named Abraham Langstrom, who considers his son as a failure when
compared to Bruce Wayne, the son of his business rival Thomas Wayne.
Abraham would steal his son's serum and makes some of his own
improvements and uses it to target the homeless (because no one would
miss them) before being stopped by Batman, though he is able to plead
temporary insanity to avoid going to prison.


Powers and abilities

By taking his bat-gland formula, Kirk Langstrom can transform himself
into a bat-like creature. By taking an antidote or if the bat-gland
formula wears off, he can return to human form.

As Man-Bat, his strength, agility and endurance are all enhanced to
super human levels. Kirk possesses an extra set of digits that form
leathery bat wings that allow him to fly, super-sensitive hearing, and a
natural sonar. He emits high-pitched sound waves and can hear the echoes
they make when they bounce off nearby objects, enabling Man-Bat to
navigate perfectly in pitch black darkness.

If in Man-Bat form for a prolonged time, he loses control over his
animalistic side and works purely on instinct, making him prone to harm
friend and foe alike.


Man-Bat Commandos

As mentioned above, Talia al Ghul had captured Kirk Langstrom and
threatened to poison Francine if he doesn't give her the Man-Bat
formula. Kirk gives in to Talia al Ghul's commands where she uses the
Man-Bat formula on the generic members of the League of Assassins to
turn into the group's Man-Bat Commandos.

In The New 52 (a reboot of the  universe), various Man-Bats
have appeared under the control of Talia al Ghul in her plot to destroy
Batman. It is later explained that Talia al Ghul had an agent steal
the serum from Langstrom's laboratory to use on her soldiers to create
the Man-Bat Commandos.

During the Forever Evil storyline, some Man-Bat commandos were used to
help the Crime Syndicate hunt down the Rogues. Mirror Master managed to
trap some of them in the Mirror World. When a Man-Bat snatches up
Weather Wizard, the other Rogues members chase after it until it crashes
into a solid wall of ice upon arriving in Mr. Freeze's territory.


Other versions

Countdown to Final Crisis

In Countdown to Final Crisis: The Search For Ray Palmer, an alternate
version of Man-Bat was shown. He is from Gotham by Gaslight (Earth-19),
and has experimented with bats similar to his mainstream counterpart. He
is later defeated by Blue Beetle and Batman.

Flashpoint

In the alternate timeline of the Flashpoint event, Man-Bat is killed
by Miranda Shrieve, the granddaughter of Matthew Shrieve. In the
flashback that Man-Bat was invited by Lt. Matthew Shrieve to be the new
member of Creature Commandos, but Man-Bat then betrays him, killing his
family. It is revealed that Man-Bat had been working with General
Sam Lane who is responsible for the deaths of Miranda's family.

JLA: The Nail

In the Elseworlds story JLA: The Nail, a captured Man-Bat makes an
appearance in Professor Hamilton's Cadmus Labs.

Batman Beyond

In the comic series set decades after Batman: The Animated Series.
Kirk returns as a white-bearded Man-Bat who has now perfected the serum
to the point where he is able to talk and control his actions unlike
before. It is revealed that shortly after Batman cured Francine of the
serum, the two started to live a peaceful life as they started studying
sonics and had two children. However, Francine developed an aggressive
form of Parkinson's and had a short life expectancy, leading Kirk to try
and perfect the Man-Bat serum to save her life. But by the time he made
it, it was too late. His children left him, angered that he didn't spend
as much time with her during her final days. He rescues a girl named Tey
who was a hostage of the Jokerz and injects her with the Man-Bat serum,
leading the two to fall in love. Kirk tries building his own cult of
Man-Bats and plans to use Kanium to help his cult control themselves
better in their Man-Bat forms and sets up a destructive weapon that
concerns the police. Bruce tries to reason with Kirk, but it only
results in Kirk viewing the both of them as monsters and only sets up
his bomb to destroy the two of them. However, Batman rescues Bruce in
time as Man-Bat tells Bruce to use his second chance wisely as he
detonates the bomb to kill himself.

Smallville Season Eleven

Man-Bat appears in Smallville comic "Smallville Season Eleven". In
Gotham City, the yellow rings of Parallax head to Arkham Asylum. There,
Batman and Nightwing are doing their best to contain the newly powered
inmates of Arkham, including Man-Bat, who have already been transformed
into Yellow Lanterns. Luckily, Superman arrives just in time to offer
assistance to Batman and Nightwing. Superman is fighting with Man-Bat
and before taking him down, Superman says to Man-Bat that if there is
more man than a bat inside of him then he takes no joy in this. Emil
Hamilton succeeds into finding a way to reboot the rings so when he does
all the Yellow Lanterns, including Man-Bat, are released from the
influence of fear and lose their powers with the rings turning black.
After their rings get rebooted and they lose their powers, the inmates
of Arkham fall from the sky unable to do anything to escape from their
eventual death but fortunately Superman manages to save them all. After
Parallax's defeat, all the now depowered criminals return to Arkham
Asylum.

Injustice: Gods Among Us

In Injustice: Gods Among Us prequel comic, Man-Bat appears in the
villain's exclusive bar World's End, attempting to enjoy a drink when
Wonder Woman and the Flash arrive in their search for Mirror Master.


In other media

Television

[Man-Bat as depicted in Batman: The Animated Series.]

-   Man-Bat appears in the series Batman: The Animated Series. Dr.
    Kirk Langstrom (voiced by Marc Singer, Frank Welker as Man-Bat) is a
    zoologist at the Gotham City Zoo. He appears in the first produced
    episode "On Leather Wings" where he steals serums from the chemical
    labs and is mistaken for Batman. The beast then commits other thefts
    at night and people start to question if it is Batman or some other
    masked hero. Batman recovers a strand of hair from the lab and takes
    it to Dr. March (Langstrom's father-in-law) to be analyzed and tells
    him that is only from a brown bat. But shortly after, Batman
    discovers that March is lying and travels to his lab. On the same
    night, Langstrom drinks the serum, when Batman arrives to question
    him—revealing Dr. March as the thief of the serum from the
    chemical labs. Langstrom tells Batman that he had discovered a
    chemical that created a new species that was neither man or bat,
    which he started taking, but could not control it. Langstrom reveals
    to Batman that the creature is in him and he transforms into a
    half-man/half-bat monster before attacking Batman. After a battle
    across the Gotham City skyline, the Man-Bat is knocked out and taken
    back to the Batcave. Batman manages to flush the formula out of
    Langstrom's system after discovering the chemicals that were stolen
    and he is returned to normal. Langstrom next appears in "Tyger,
    Tyger" where he analyzes the chemical that Dr. Emile Dorian used for
    his experiments. In the episode "Terror in the Sky", Langstrom is
    having a dream that he transforms into Man-Bat and he begins to
    commit crimes. Then Langstrom is awakened, just to find the remains
    of a fruit and scratches from a rag. Batman and Langstrom eventually
    discover that the other Man-Bat turns out to be his wife Francine
    Langstrom (voiced by Meredith MacRae) accidentally exposed to an
    alternate Man-Bat serum created by Francine's scientist father who
    was trying to alter Langstrom's work. In the end, Batman cures
    Francine as well and she returns to her husband.
-   Although Man-Bat never appeared in the revamped series The New
    Batman Adventures, Man-Bat's alter-egos (Kirk Langstrom and
    Francine Langstrom) make a cameo during Bruce Wayne's wedding in the
    episode "Chemistry".
-   In Batman Beyond, a new trend dubbed "splicing" involves fusing
    together animal and human DNA. The new Batman ends up captured by
    the splicers' leader Abel Cuvier (aka Chimera) and is injected with
    vampire bat DNA which transforms Batman into Man-Bat but is later
    returned to normal by Bruce Wayne.
-   In the Justice League Unlimited episode "The Doomsday Sanction",
    Professor Milo mentions that Langstrom's research has proven useful
    to his experiments splicing together human and animal DNA for
    Project Cadmus. This ends in disaster when a mutated warthog is
    mentioned to have destroyed his lab.

[Man-Bat in The Batman.]

-   Man-Bat appears in The Batman with Dr. Langstrom voiced by Peter
    MacNicol while special sound effects were used to provide Man-Bat's
    vocal effects. He is an employee at Wayne Enterprises doing research
    on bats and apparently afflicted with albinism. When Bruce Wayne
    begins to cut off the funding for his project, Langstrom tells Bruce
    that he needs the project to cure his niece's deafness. When Bruce
    discovers that Langstrom is lying, he goes to Langstrom's office to
    discover both Langstrom's obsession with Batman and the project's
    real purpose. Langstrom arrived in his vault to find his boss there;
    he admits that he created the formula so he could be feared like
    Batman, and drinks a serum, transforming him into Man-Bat. He
    attacks Bruce at his office, and escapes. Bruce changes into Batman
    and confronts Man-Bat in the skies of Gotham City. They land on the
    ground, and Langstrom reverts to his human form. To be safe, Batman
    destroys one of Langstrom's vials. Langstrom drinks the remaining
    vial, transforms back to Man-Bat, and kidnaps Detective Ethan
    Bennett. Batman confronts Man-Bat in a sewer, and Langstrom reverts
    to his human form, and he is taken away to Arkham Asylum. In "Pets",
    Langstrom is still in Arkham and trying to recreate the Man-Bat
    serum, while the Penguin finds a sonar device he wants to use to
    control a large condor but ends up with a sonar designed to
    control bats. When Penguin uses the device, dormant remnants of the
    Man-Bat formula still inside Langstrom reawaken, transforming him to
    Man-Bat and instinctively leading him to the Penguin's hideout, as
    he continues repeating the line: "Come to me." With the sonar
    device, Penguin is able to use Man-Bat to do his bidding for him,
    returning him to his human form by saying "rest". Langstrom is
    furious with Penguin when he learns that Penguin plans to use it to
    control Langstrom for his own gain, and promises Penguin that the
    minute he loses the sonar device, he will feel Man-Bat's wrath. At
    the docks, Batman confronts Man-Bat, and, using his own sonar
    device, induces a reversion back to his human form. Langstrom and
    Penguin are both taken back to Arkham. Langstrom returns in "Rumors"
    as one of the many villains captured by the vigilante Rumor. He was
    shown in his human form and later in his Man-Bat form, implying he
    has full control over his transformation. Langstrom made one last
    appearance in "Attack of the Terrible Trio", no longer a villain and
    renouncing the Man-Bat name. Batman charged Langstrom with creating
    an antidote for his own mutagen that some college students (the
    show's version of the Terrible Trio) had stolen from him and were
    planning on infecting the entire student body with.
-   In the Batman: The Brave and the Bold episode "Last Bat on
    Earth!", Batman travels to the future to stop Gorilla Grodd, now
    leading the apes. When Batman goes into the Batcave with Kamandi
    and Dr. Canus, he encounters humanoid "Man-Bats" that can talk like
    the rest of the humanoid animals. Batman and Kamandi manage to drive
    them out after he defeats their leader. The Man-Bats later assist
    Batman in an all-out war against the apes, having gained respect for
    the Dark Knight.
-   Man-Bat appears in the Beware the Batman episode "Doppelganger",
    voiced by Robin Atkin Downes. Dr. Kirk Langstrom was working on a
    cure for diseases with bat DNA before Professor Pyg and Mister Toad
    raided his laboratory and forced him at gunpoint to mutate into a
    man/bat hybrid with a corrupted version of his formula. They used a
    drug-filled mechanical collar to control Man-Bat and force him to
    rob chemicals so they can recreate Dr. Langstrom's formula and turn
    humans into animal hybrids. After Man-Bat is captured and freed from
    control by Batman and Katana, he repays them by helping them defeat
    Professor Pyg and Mister Toad. After defeating the villains, Man-Bat
    swears to work in the shadows on a cure for his condition. In
    "Alone", Man-Bat is recruited by Katana alongside Metamorpho and
    Oracle to help Batman in his final battle against Deathstroke. They
    all go to the Batcave to take down Deathstroke's C4 bombs
    spread around. Man-Bat comes up with a ZIP formula for Metamorpho to
    create so that it can wipe out Deathstroke's memory of his knowledge
    of Batman's true identity.
-   Man-Bat appears in the TV special Lego : Batman
    Be-Leaguered with his vocal effects provided by Dee Bradley
    Baker''.

Film

-   Man-Bat was considered as an antagonist in one of the unproduced
    scripts for a third Joel Schumacher Batman film - the unmade fifth
    film Batman Unchained - but was dropped in favor of the Scarecrow
    and Harley Quinn. Man-Bat was to be a central antagonist in Lee
    Shapiro's Batman: DarKnight script alongside the Scarecrow. He
    was due to be played by Mark Linn-Baker or Martin Short.
-   Kirk Langstrom and the Man-Bat Commandos appear in Son of Batman
    with Kirk Langstrom voiced by Xander Berkeley while the vocal
    effects for the Man-Bat Commandos are provided by Dee Bradley Baker.
    At the beginning, he works for Ra's al Ghul in an attempt to create
    an army of Man-Bats to strengthen the League of Assassins. Kirk
    Langstrom was also behind the mutagen that Killer Croc empowered
    himself with where he had sprouted a tail. After Ra's al Ghul's
    death, Deathstroke recruits him to continue his work. This time,
    Deathstroke takes his wife Francine (voiced by Diane Michelle) and
    daughter Rebecca (voiced by Kari Wahlgren) as hostages so that
    Langstrom can create the Man-Bat Formulas. When Batman finds a lead
    in Kirk Langstrom's lab, he is attacked by a mutated ape that was
    living there. All three are later rescued by Batman and Damian
    Wayne. While the mutagen is complete by then, Langstrom creates
    enough antidote to stop the Man-Bats created.
-   Man-Bat appears in Batman Unlimited: Animal Instincts, voiced by
    Phil LaMarr. He appears as part of Penguin's animalitia. In this
    version, Kirk Langstrom was working on a serum to help the deaf and
    blind, but accidentally turned himself into Man-Bat. Penguin used
    this new form to his advantage, giving Langstrom cures in exchange
    for the Man-Bat's help with crimes and Langstrom creating
    robotic animals. Red Robin manages to get Langstrom's mind to
    surface in Man-Bat, allowing him to help with defeating the Penguin
    and defending Gotham against the Midas meteor. By flying into the
    beam powering the shield, Man-Bat was able to burn out the remains
    of the formula turning him back into Kirk Langstrom.
-   A parallel world version of Kirk Langstrom appears as Batman in
    Justice League: Gods and Monsters, voiced by Michael C. Hall. This
    version of Kirk Langstrom developed vampire-like abilities upon
    consuming a serum to see if it will cure his cancer, with Doctor
    Will Magnus carrying out additional research to develop a further
    cure for his transformation after he provided Kirk with nanites to
    help perfect Kirk's cure without waiting to carry out
    additional tests. Kirk was also in love with Magnus' girlfriend and
    eventual wife, Tina, which resulted in Magnus accidentally beating
    her to death in a fit of rage once he realized Tina loved Kirk more
    than him. Kirk worked together with the other League members
    Superman and Wonder Woman when Magnus attempted to frame them in
    order to fulfill his plan of injecting everyone in the world with
    nanites to make humanity work as a collective. When the fight is
    over and a regretful and remorseful Magnus destroyed himself, he and
    Superman use Luthor's kryptonian data to help humanity while
    mourning over the loss of his best friend and love interest.
-   Man-Bat appears in direct-to-video animated film Lego 
    Super Heroes: Justice League: Attack of the Legion of Doom, with
    his vocal effects provided by Dee Bradley Baker.
-   In Batman vs Superman: Dawn of Justice a creature very similar to
    Man-Bat emerges from Martha Wayne's grave and attacks Bruce, which
    turns out to be a nightmare.

Video games

-   The Super NES video game version of The Adventures of Batman &
    Robin features Man-Bat as an enemy character. In this game, he
    speaks; although in the show, he never spoke in Man-Bat form.
-   Man-Bat is a boss and playable character in Lego Batman. with his
    vocal effects provided by Chris Edgerly. He is an enemy of Batman
    and follower of the Penguin. In the game, he possesses super
    strength and the ability to glide using his wings. In the
    Nintendo DS version, Man-Bat is an unlockable character through the
    "Villain Hunt" minigame. At the end of the game, he is seen reading
    the newspaper upside-down.
-   Man-Bat appears in Lego Batman 2:  Super Heroes with his vocal
    effects provided by Fred Tatasciore. He appears as a boss fight and
    an unlockable character.
-   Man-Bat appears as a playable character in Lego Batman 3: Beyond
    Gotham with his vocal effects provided by Liam O'Brien.
-   Man-Bat appears in Batman: Arkham Knight, with Kirk Langstrom and
    the Bat's vocal effects provided by Loren Lester. While on Gotham
    City's Miagani Island, Batman has an encounter with Man-Bat. When
    Batman sees Man-Bat flying over Miagani Island, he intercepts it and
    takes a blood sample to determine the creature's identity. Batman
    uploads the sample analysis to Alfred who identifies that the blood
    belonged to Dr. Kirk Langstrom. Batman goes to Langstrom's lab in
    Chinatown and sees video tapes showing Man-Bat's origins. Similar to
    the comics, Man-Bat's was created by testing a formula based on
    vampire bat DNA to cure his deafness while in the presence of
    Francine Langstrom. When Kirk transforms, he loses control of his
    Man-Bat form and accidentally kills Francine. Batman identifies the
    cause of death as blunt trauma to the head, deducing that Langstrom
    had no idea what he was doing. After several encounters, Batman
    creates an antidote and injects it into Man-Bat to change him back
    to Kirk Langstrom, locking him in the Batmobile's trunk while the
    process completes. Once at the Gotham City Police Station, Batman
    then places Kirk in an isolation cell. Kirk is last seen crying in
    his cell over his role in Francine's death. If Batman walks inside
    Langstrom's lab after this side mission, he discovers Francine's
    body gone and a blooded painting on the broken window which says
    "Forever my love" implying that she became She-Bat. If the date on
    the console or computer the game is on is changed to 31/10/15
    (Halloween), grappling around buildings will eventually make the
    Man-Bat jumpscare occur once again. Returning to the Gotham City
    Police Department and speaking to Officer Boulden will reveal that
    Kirk Langstrom apparently morphed back into Man-Bat and broke out of
    his cage with Cash firing at him but missing due to the speed at
    which he flew. Batman will state how "He was afraid this would
    happen" prompting Boulden to reply with "Happy Halloween, huh?"

Web series

-   The parallel version of Kirk Langstrom's Batman appears in Justice
    League: Gods and Monsters Chronicles (a companion to Justice
    League: Gods and Monsters), voiced by Michael C. Hall. In the first
    episode, he defeats an alternate version of Harley Quinn and kills
    her by sucking her blood instead of taking her to the police.

Miscellaneous

-   In issue #28 of the Super Friends comics, Man-Bat made an appearance
    as one of the 5 foes that the Super Friends battle.
-   In The Batman Adventures (a comic series based on Batman: The
    Animated Series), another Man-Bat was formed when DR. STEFEN PERRY
    stole the Man-Bat serum from Langstrom. He was defeated by Batman
    and arrested by the police. In issue #21, Kirk Langstrom was later
    forcefully transformed into Man-Bat and recruited by Dr. Emile
    Dorian who hoped to use his assistance to form a "House of Dorian"
    with Anthony Romulus's Werewolf form, Tygrus (who Emile duped into
    working for him again), and Man-Bat.
-   Man-Bat appears in issue 12 of the All-New Batman: The Brave and
    the Bold (which is based on Batman: The Brave and the Bold).
-   In issue 4 of the comic spin-off of Beware the Batman, a new
    Man-Bat appears in the form of Tim Quan, an acquaintance of Barbara
    Gordon with a crush on her. He was mutated when he sneaked into the
    lab of Kirk Langstrom (who is still stuck in his Man-Bat form and
    was looking for a cure). Having become more unstable than Langstrom,
    Quan goes in a rampage and kidnaps Barbara. Batman teams up with
    Langstrom to find and cure Quan at the expense of Langstrom's
    own cure.

