MANITOU RAVEN is a fictional character and superhero from .
Manitou Raven was known to shout "Inukchuk!" when he cast spells. This
is a reference by writer Joe Kelly to Apache Chief from the Super
Friends animated series. Like Apache Chief, Manitou would shout this
phrase in order to grow to enormous size. A sign in JLA #67 which read
"Apache Land" gave the first clue to Manitou Raven's link to Apache
Chief. Despite the intent of the reference, however, "Manitou" is an
Algonquian word, not Apache.


Fictional character biography

MANITOU RAVEN and his wife DAWN hail from the Obsidian Age of Atlantis,
circa 1000 BCE. They were born in North America, from a tribe which
would one day become the Apache Tribe. Few details are known about
Raven's early life. It is also unclear whether his command of mystical
forces was learned or innate.

Raven was recruited by the rulers of Atlantis — Rama Khan and Gamemnae —
to join heroes from across the globe (and from rival societies) and form
a multicultural "League of Ancients." 

When Gamemnae had a prophetic vision of a "seven-headed hydra" from the
future that would threaten Atlantis, Raven and a super-powered Aztec
warrior called Tezumak journeyed to the 21st century to battle the
threat. While there, they concluded that the "hydra" was the Justice
League, but they were unable to defeat the League and barely managed to
return to Atlantis to alert the Ancients that the JLA were en route.
The JLA ultimately traveled back to the Ancients' time and were slain.
During the fight, Raven witnessed Green Lantern Kyle Rayner's bravery;
Rayner turned his attention from the fight to save innocent Atlanteans
simply because they were in danger, even after they had shown him and
his friends nothing but fear. Raven also tested Batman with his father's
tomahawk, which has an enchantment that prevents it from piercing the
skin of a good man. These events caused Raven to question the prophecy
condemning the Justice League. Confronting Gamemnae, he learned that her
vision was a lie; an Atlantean outcast, she had raised the city to the
surface and restored the inhabitants' ability to breathe air with the
intention of turning them into a world-conquering empire with herself as
ruler, but when Aquaman and his people arrived from the future, she
learned that her plans were destined to fail, and resolved to kill the
Justice League when they came to rescue Aquaman in order to prevent
their future.

Using Rayner's heart (Kyle having willingly sacrificed himself for the
plan to work) and the souls of the slain JLA members, Raven cast a
powerful containment spell around Atlantis that effectively trapped the
evil Gamemnae. Eventually another team of Leaguers- consisting of
Nightwing, Zatanna, Firestorm and Hawkgirl- arrived from the future,
helping Aquaman to sink Atlantis to disrupt Gamemnae's bond with the
city in the past, while the other League members in the future- the
future Raven, Green Arrow, the Atom, Jason Blood, Major Disaster, Garth,
and Faith- vanquished Gamemnae by tricking her into resurrecting the
original League (Raven had reanimated them as corpses to fight the
flesh-absorbing Gamemnae, forcing Gamemnae to bring them back to life so
she could effectively kill them). Afterwards, with his alternate future
self having sacrificed himself to defeat Gamemnae, the past versions of
Raven and Dawn chose to accompany the Justice League and the returning
Atlanteans into the future. Following this, Jason Blood left the JLA
and suggested Manitou Raven as his replacement. Superman formally
admitted him soon thereafter.

Being a man over three thousand years out of time, Raven suffered from
culture shock, but eventually grew accustomed to the 21st century,
respecting the Justice League as warriors and friends; he even told
Aquaman that the League were the bravest people he had ever met. His
powerful command of magic played an important role during his time on
the team; most notably, when the League faced the Burning, an enraged
Burning Martian unleashed when J'onn J'onzz broke his genetic lock
against fire and unlocked his racial memories of the ancient Martians,
he led teammates Major Disaster and the Atom on a spiritual walk to make
contact with the Manhunter's true self on the spiritual plane.
Meanwhile, the Manitou continued to immerse himself in his work. He even
visited a reservation casino built on what was once his tribe's land.
Its location was not specified, but he called it gontee ni, "ground of
four fingers."

Justice League Elite

Both he and Dawn were eventually recruited into the Justice League Elite
by Vera Black, who approached the JLA with a proposition. It seemed that
a powerful chaos was emanating from the Earth's very being. The mother
goddess, Gaea, was awakening and in her anger she threatened to destroy
humanity. Though Superman was understandably hesitant to ally with
Vera's new Elite, Raven confirmed Vera's prophesies. The JLA and the
Elite subsequently staged an elaborate battle and convinced Gaea that
humans were worthy of inheriting the planet.

After this, Vera boldly proposed the formation of the Justice League
Elite: a black ops team organized to fight extranormal threats before
they reach the public. Superman and Batman denied Vera membership in the
League, which angered several of their teammates, including Raven, the
Flash and Major Disaster, who all believed that Black had proved herself
worthy. These members left the main JLA and allied with her in this new
venture. Thus the Justice League Elite became a sort of
"not-exactly-sanctioned don't-ask-don't-tell" covert operations unit.
Their mission was to hunt and eliminate extranormal threats to the Earth
before they went public.

This new undercover branch of the League moved to a secret base in New
Jersey called The Factory. In their first mission, they infiltrated
an organization of assassins that led to the takedown of the despotic
dictator, Hi-Shan Bhat. Once Bhat in custody he was mysteriously killed
by a member of the Elite. Vera knew this bode poorly for their
future; upon their return, she charged Raven with divining the identity
of the team's traitor/Bhat's killer. During this time, Dawn became
distanced from her husband. His constant attention to work and the
trials of the "Stony Path" kept him from satisfying her needs. Dawn
became friendly with Green Arrow, who had vowed to quit the team because
of Bhat's death.) Soon the two engaged in a sexual relationship —
not unbeknownst to Raven. Raven was angered of course, but consumed
by his work. He acquired the "Eye of 18 Pupils" in order to divine the
truth behind Bhat's death.

But before Raven could reveal the team's killer, he followed them in
pursuit of the villain Aftermath. There Raven invoked his magic one last
time and died taking the brunt of a bomb. This would not be the last
heard from such a powerful magician. Just after his death, Raven
appeared to several members of the Elite. His spirit convinced Major
Disaster (who felt responsible for Raven's death) to seek treatment for
alcoholism. Dawn entrusted Raven's hatchet to the Elite's coordinator,
Naif al-Sheikh. Then in grief and anger, she too summoned Raven's spirit
via the staff and uttered his magic phrase, "Inukchuk!"

It was Raven who implored the Elite to regroup when all seemed lost.
Dawn then assumed Manitou Raven's mantle of power (now MANITOU DAWN),
and she was permanently marked on the face by his spectral touch.
During the Elite's final battle, Manitou Raven appeared in both the form
of a Raven and as a phantom version of his former self. So far, Raven
has remained close to Dawn, in a spiritual form, acting as an
unpredictable advisor.

