MATTER-EATER LAD (real name TENZIL KEM) is a superhero in the 
Universe. He is a member of the Legion of Super-Heroes and possesses the
power to eat matter in all forms, as do all natives of his home planet,
Bismoll. He first appears in Adventure Comics #303 (December 1962).


Fictional character biography

Pre–Zero Hour

Matter-Eater Lad is the fifteenth member inducted into the Legion of
Super-Heroes, joining soon after Bouncing Boy. In his first appearance,
Matter-Eater Lad explains his origins, saying that the natives of
Bismoll found that microbes had made all their food inedible, and that
the populace evolved their ability to eat all matter as a survival
mechanism. Tenzil's mother is named Mitz Kem, his father Rall. His
brother, Renkil, tries to take Tenzil's place in the Legion during one
story (Superboy #184). Their family life is shown to be rough. He has
an unrequited crush on Shrinking Violet, which features for the bulk of
the Legion's run in Adventure Comics.

He appears rarely in Legion stories, as the writers struggled with the
problem of how to make his power useful in a fight and was routinely
written out via a plot device where Tenzil was constantly being drafted
into his planet's political system due to his fame as a Legion member.
During one of his first draftings to be in politics, he put in a good
word for fellow Bismollian, Calorie Queen, who had somewhat similar
powers as him, but also had the ability to turn caloric energy into
super strength. Matter-Eater Lad does have one major moment of heroism
though, saving the universe in Superboy and The Legion of Super-Heroes
#251 by eating the previously thought to be indestructible Miracle
Machine, though the energies of the device leave him insane for several
years. He is ultimately cured by Brainiac Five. He would later avert
the conquest of Bismoll by an army of Computo replicas, with the
assistance of the Legion Subs (this mission would cause Polar Boy to
disband his group, and join the Legion proper). It was not until the
launch of Legion of the Super-Heroes, volume 4, that the character
becomes a major figure in the Legion series. Keith Giffen, who had
much success with humor in his 1987 Justice League relaunch, revamped
Tenzil Kem (which could arguably be explained as consequence of his
regained sanity) as a free spirit who rebels against his planet's
virtual enslavement of him as a senator by becoming a multi-media
celebrity, using his planet's tax money to finance multiple television
shows that allow Tenzil to leave his planet for multiple trips to Earth
and other planets for adventure and fun. While Tenzil's exploits make
him persona non-grata with his world's rulers, they make him even more
popular with the masses of his homeworld, resulting in Tenzil being kept
on as senator. "Trust me, I'm a senator" is an oft-uttered catchphrase
during this period. Tenzil eventually comes into conflict with former
Legion villain Prince Evillo, founder of The Devil's Dozen, and is sent
to a Hades-like dimension. Having been technically "dead", Kem is voted
out of office by the opposition party (who dislike both his disrespect
for their traditions and his overwhelming popularity) and leaves Bismoll
to find adventure.

During the "Five Year Gap" following the Magic Wars, Earth fell under
the covert control of the Dominators, and withdrew from the United
Planets. When fellow Legionnaire Polar Boy was unjustly imprisoned by
Earthgov for speaking out against the Dominators, Tenzil traveled to
Earth, and used his force of will and absurdist sense of humor to free
him. Tenzil rejoined the Legion, and since the team was operating
without the assistance of the United Planets, his political connections
and owed favors became very important to the Legion. Matter-Eater Lad
ultimately seduced and married former Legion villain Saturn Queen.

Soon thereafter, the members of the Dominators' highly classified "Batch
SW6" escaped captivity. Originally, Batch SW6 appeared to be a group of
teenage Legionnaire clones, created from samples apparently taken just
prior to Ferro Lad's death at the hands of the Sun-Eater. Later, they
were revealed to be time-paradox duplicates every bit as legitimate as
their older counterparts. After Earth was destroyed in a disaster
reminiscent of the destruction of Krypton over a millennium earlier,
a few dozen surviving cities and their inhabitants reconstituted their
world as New Earth. The SW6 Legionnaires—including their version of
Matter-Eater Lad—remained.

Post–Zero Hour

After the events of the Zero Hour miniseries, Legion continuity was
completely rebooted. Tenzil Kem (along with Bouncing Boy) are recast as
part of the Legion's civilian support staff. Tenzil serves as the team's
personal chef. Unlike the post-Zero Hour Bouncing Boy (who ultimately
does join the team, as the group's pilot) Tenzil never joins the team,
though he does help the team out during several battles when the group's
base is attacked. Unlike his pre-Zero Hour counterpart, Tenzil's spit is
similar to acid.

"Threeboot"

Tenzil Kem was reintroduced in the current run of the Legion as a
government agent, investigating Cosmic Boy's disappearance and the
legality of his final act as Legion leader. He seems to possess the
powers of his previous incarnations, escaping a deathtrap by devouring
an entire silo full of grain. He also bites off the pointer finger of
Mekt Ranzz.

Post-Infinite Crisis

The events of the Infinite Crisis miniseries have apparently restored
a close analogue of the Pre-Crisis Legion to continuity, as seen in "The
Lightning Saga" story arc in Justice League of America and Justice
Society of America, and in the "Superman and the Legion of
Super-Heroes" story arc in Action Comics. Matter-Eater Lad is included
in their number but is MIA. In Final Crisis: Legion of 3 Worlds #5,
the SW6 version of Matter-Eater Lad was among the many Legionnaires
pulled from the Multiverse to fight the Time Trapper.

In Superman #694, Matter-Eater Lad is revealed to have been masquerading
as Mon-El's friend Mitch, owner of a local cafe. He reveals his identity
by stepping in to save a woman trapped in a burning car, allowing Mon-El
to continue fighting the larger threats.

As revealed in Adventure Comics (vol. 2) #8, Matter-Eater Lad is part
of a secret team sent by the late RJ Brande to the 21st century to save
the future in the Last Stand of New Krypton storyline.


In other media

-   In an episode of the Legion of Super Heroes animated series,
    Matter-Eater Lad (voiced by Alexander Polinsky) appears (in his
    civilian identity as Tenzil Kem) as a participant in the
    Intergalactic Games, an Olympics-like event in which Lightning Lad
    also competes. When the Fatal Five attack the Games, Kem, along with
    Jo Nah of Rimbor, helps the Legion defeat them, at one point eating
    through the handle of the Persuader's Atomic Axe. He does not have a
    speaking part in the episode. He reappears in the episode The
    Substitutes, where he tries out for the Legion as Matter-Eater Lad
    and gains membership. He distinguishes himself by calmly eating an
    ionosphere-eating monster without a worry - and notes it tasted
    like chicken. In addition, he appears in the first season finale,
    Sundown, helping to stop the Sun Eater. He returns in the Season
    Two premiere, taking a bite out of Emerald Empress' magical weapon,
    the Emerald Eye of Ekron, and accidentally putting himself into
    a coma. In the episode In The Beginning, he is shown to be
    conscious, but still in the hospital. In the Dark Victory
    two-parter, he is shown to have returned to active duty.
-   American indie rock band Guided By Voices recorded a song based on
    the character called "Matter-Eater Lad" for their 1994 EP Clown
    Prince of the Menthol Trailer.
-   Matter-Eater Lad was included as part of Mattel's  Universe
    Classics Legion of Super-Heroes 12-pack of action figures.

