MAXI-MAN is the name of two  heroes. The first was created by
Len Wein and Joe Phillips and first appeared in Mister Miracle (vol. 2)
#9 (October 1989). The second was created by Jodi Picoult and Drew
Johnson and first appeared in Wonder Woman (vol. 3) #6 (May 2007).


Fictional character biography

Henry Hayes

Henry Hayes worked in a successful ad agency. After he was fired, his
wife took his young son and left him. Hayes drifted through life until
the detonation of an alien gene bomb. He was rushed to the hospital and
accidentally given a lethal dose of adrenaline. Instead of dying, Hayes
was granted superstrength, superspeed, and superhuman endurance. He
decided to become the super-hero Maxi-Man.

Maxi-Man was initially unsuccessful due to the fact he was outshined by
the other heroes and decided to move to a small town. Unfortunately for
Maxi-Man, he chose Bailey, New Jersey, the new home of Mister Miracle
II. During the first disaster, Miracle was able to save the day before
Maxi-Man could act. Deciding Mister Miracle had to go, Maxi-Man tried to
defeat him during their next encounter. Mister Miracle avoided fighting
Maxi-Man and made him look foolish. Maxi-Man became more enraged until
the crowd intervened. Learning a valuable lesson about heroism, Maxi-Man
moved on to work on his skills.
Hayes didn't stay out of the limelight for long. He soon joined Booster
Gold's corporate hero team, The Conglomerate. In addition to fighting
crime, Maxi-Man and his teammates also became corporate sponsors. Hayes
personally appeared in advertisements for Danielle Foods, a lawn care
company and division of LexCorp. He participated in the coup of San
Sebor. Though the ruler was a tyrant, some of Hayes' teammates protested
the nature of the mission. The Justice League attempted to arrest the
team after this, but they decided to talk instead and left on
uncomfortable terms. Maxi-Man and his team were endangered when one of
their liaisons, Thrunctuous, illegally worked with Hector Hammond, to
create a new superhero that would 'accidentally' kill the Conglomerate.
Thrunctuous and the superhero, a mindless monster, both died in the
resulting fight. The group survived the bad publicity as it was spun
that they worked with the JLI to 'save' the world'. The group soon
decided not to follow along with their sponsors' often illegal ideas and
became a branch of the League. Maxi-Man left the team afterwards.

Maxi-Man was often considered old-fashioned by his friends. His speech
patterns were decades out of date. Instead of pondering the social
implications of removing the leader of San Sebor, he declared his love
for patriotic superheroes, including General Glory. He later stated his
favorite film is Mr. Deeds Goes to Town, a Frank Capra movie.

Death

However, Maxi-Man did not retire and continued adventuring until he was
captured by Roulette and forced to battle in her House. Apparently, he
was killed, and his picture was hung among the other fallen players.

Maxi-Man Successor

[Maxi-Man from Wonder Woman (vol. 3) #6 (May 2007)] A new Maxi-Man
recently appeared on the super-hero stage. This second Maxi-Man became a
hero after winning a reality tv show and possesses identical powers as
the original. He makes a publicity appearance at a theme park, guarded
by government agents Nemesis and Diana Prince AKA Wonder Woman. Debris
from a faulty coaster knocks out Maxi-Man. Nemesis saves him while
Wonder Woman saves the coaster.

Category: metahumans Category: superheroes
