MAYA is a fictional Indian comic book superheroine in the  Universe.
She first appeared in Justice League Europe #47 (1993), and was
created by Gerard Jones and Ron Randall.


Fictional character biography

Chandi Gupta manifested her elemental powers at an early age, barely
into her teenage years. Her parents, unsure of what to do, left her in
the care of a strange Indian cult that they themselves had become
followers of. The leaders of this cult were convinced that she was the
reincarnation of one of the Hindu gods, Shiva. Chandi, confused and
terrified, realised that the cult was evil and planning to sacrifice
her. Horrified, she escaped, and fled to London.

With the League

In London under the alias Maya, she witnesses the Justice League Europe
brawl with the supervillain Sonar. She reluctantly uses her powers to
assist them in their battle and manages to single-handedly defeat the
threat. Grateful for her timely assistance, the JLE offers her official
membership. Feeling she had nowhere else to go, she gladly accepts. One
of her earliest missions with them involves a return to her homeland
India, where she comes under attack from her supposed protector, the
Mahayogi. Fortunately, she fends him off long enough to escape and
rejoin her team.

Maya is alone in the Justice League castle headquarters when it is
attacked by three of the Bloodlines parasites. She manages to evade them
and summons help by firing bursts of energy high into the night sky. She
is rescued by her teammates and the armored superhero Lionheart.

Overmaster

The JLE journey to Nepal, where she encounters a boy with powers similar
to hers. However, the child is killed, and Maya learns that the cult
that had held her as a young girl was a front for a villain called the
Overmaster, who planned to destroy the Earth. Overmaster takes control
of her mind and uses her against her teammates, but the Mahayogi, whom
she had fought earlier with the League, sacrifices himself in order to
free her mind. After a climactic confrontation with the Overmaster, the
JLE disbands. Maya's parents (her mother Bharata; her father is unnamed)
demonstrate fire-based powers of their own that involve an amulet and
calling upon Shiva. Realizing they were no longer part of the cult, Maya
decides to give her parents one more chance. Their reunion is marred by
a confrontation with the armored, League-hating Vox Humana. Though the
League assists Maya and her parents, the villains are driven away by
human League supporters.

Maya resides with her parents in India. She attended the "funeral" of
Maxwell Lord. She was also seen in an adventure in which she aids Wonder
Woman.

Infinite Crisis and Beyond

She was briefly seen during Infinite Crisis. Maya made her most recent
appearance in the Teen Titans series during the Final Crisis and
Battle for the Cowl events. She is one of the candidates considered by
Robin to replace the empty slots on the team roster left by Supergirl,
Miss Martian, and Rose Wilson. Maya ultimately ends up being passed over
in favor of Static, Aquagirl, and Kid Eternity.


Powers and abilities

Maya was originally only able to manifest a mystical bow. She has used
it as a conventional bow, able to fire sometimes devastatingly powerful
projectiles usually made of mystical fire or water, or, on one occasion,
to enhance her speed and strength. She later developed the ability to
manifest large amounts of fire or water without using the bow as a
focus. Her powers are similar to those of the Indian heroine Celsius.

