MEDPHYLL is the name of a fictional character in the  . He is a
member of the intergalactic police force known as the Green Lantern
Corps. He is a respected member and one of the most experienced Green
Lanterns. Medphyll is notable as a member of the Green Lantern Corps for
having made brief appearances in other comic book series, such as Swamp
Thing and Starman.


Fictional character biography

Medphyll is the Green Lantern of the planet J586, a planet where plants
are the dominant life forms. He has a somewhat tree-like appearance,
with brown, bark-like skin, feet that slightly resemble roots and
sprout-like "mind stalks" instead of hair. He is the Green Lantern of
Sector 586 and is known as one of the most skilled Green Lanterns in the
Corps and is a faithful friend to Hal Jordan. Even after Hal was
possessed by Parallax and killed many members of the Green Lantern
Corps, Medphyll still considers him one of the universe's greatest
protectors.

Swamp Thing

Medphyll also made an appearance in Swamp Thing #61 when the
spacebound life force of the Swamp Thing, searching for plant life to
safely inhabit, accidentally possessed a large portion of the population
of J586 and merged them into a horrific monster. Medphyll cleverly used
a series of hypnotic lights to immobilize the Swamp Thing without
harming any of the populace. Afterward, Medphyll allowed the Swamp Thing
to possess the recently deceased body of his predecessor and mentor,
Jothra and set the Swamp Thing on the right course for Earth.

Darkstar

After Parallax destroyed the Green Lantern Corps, several ex-Green
Lanterns including Medphyll and John Stewart began another intergalactic
peacekeeping force known as the Darkstars. Despite several reports of
his death by Guy Gardner during and soon after the Infinite Crisis,
Medphyll remained alive and fought alongside his fellow Darkstars. When
the Controllers withdrew their power from the Darkstars and left their
suits depowered, Medphyll, like many other Darkstars, faded into
obscurity.

Starman

In the Starman story "Stars My Destination," Medphyll was a member of
the group of rebels who helped Jack Knight help Prince Gavyn seize the
throne of the Crown Imperial empire. This included the New God Fastbak
and the Omega Men leader Tigorr. At the end of the story, Medphyll was
revealed to have fallen from the grace of being a Green Lantern, as he
betrayed Jack and the rebels, nearly killing Jack in the process.
Medphyll reveals he had been promised a planet of his own in returning
for helping Gavyn's political opponent. Jack was able to summon the Star
Rod in time to save himself and he "killed" Medphyll. With the
assistance of friendly forces, Gavyn is able to retake his throne.

Medphyll's return

Green Lantern: Sinestro Corps Secret Files and Origins provided a very
short thumbnail biography for Medphyll, including his ability to
transfer his "thought-essence" into other plants and that he is
responsible for Sector 586. Nothing about his encounters with Swamp
Thing or Starman or his time as a Darkstar is mentioned.

The New 52

In The New 52, Animal Man and his group learn from Frankenstein that
there is a prisoner deep beneath Metropolis. They find that the prisoner
in question is the Green Lantern Medphyll. Animal Man and his party
learn from Medphyll that the Guardians of the Universe selected him be
to Earth's Green Lantern after Earth had fallen to The Black. Medphyll
revealed that while helping to combat The Black, he was captured by
Blackbriar Thorn. When Blackbriar Thorn finds Medphyll free, Animal Man
assumes the powers of a termite to get Blackbriar Thorn out of his
wooden body. After recharging his ring from atop the ruins of the Daily
Planet, Medphyll helps the Patchwork Army fight off the forces of The
Black. Animal Man and his allies arrive outside of Anton Arcade's
castle which is guarded by rotted versions of the Justice League.
Medphyll then senses that The Green has arrived as it shows the forces
of Swamp Thing attacking the Rotlings and the Un-Men.


Oath

All Green Lanterns have personal oaths. Medphyll's is as follows:




In other media

Television

[Medphyll hovers with other members of the Corps as seen in Duck
Dodgers.]

-   Medphyll appears in the Duck Dodgers episode "The Green Loontern."
    He made a cameo alongside the other Green Lanterns featured in
    this episode.

-   Medphyll appears in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold episode
    "Day of the Dark Knight."

Film

-   Medphyll has a brief cameo in the live action film Green Lantern.

