MENTO is a fictional superhero published by .


Publication history

Mento first appeared in Doom Patrol #91 (November 1964) and was
created by Arnold Drake and Bruno Premiani.


Fictional character biography

STEVE DAYTON, one of the world's richest men, builds a helmet to enhance
his mental abilities and calls himself Mento. This is an attempt on
Dayton's part to impress Elasti-Girl (a.k.a. Rita Farr) of the Doom
Patrol. Although his arrogant manner annoys the male field members of
the team, he is successful, and in Doom Patrol #104 (June 1966), Mento
and Elasti-Girl are married. They soon adopt Beast Boy (a.k.a. Garfield
Logan). After Elasti-Girl's death, Mento becomes involved in the hunt
for her killers, General Zahl and Madame Rouge.

In Swamp Thing #49-50, Steve is recruited by John Constantine for a
small gathering of powerful beings, in order to assist in a battle
taking place in hell. The demonic forces are facing an entity that could
easily overwhelm and destroy them, even with the aid of Heavenly beings.
Using Mento to get a 'read' on the situation, John assists the battle
with magical power. Despite the defeat of the entity, Sargon the
Sorcerer and Zatara burn to death and Mento is left insane. (This was
before Swamp Thing and John Constantine switched into Vertigo continuity
and the event has subsequently been referenced in several regular 
universe comic books.) Shortly thereafter, Dayton, now in a wheelchair,
resumes his Mento identity and lashes out at Garfield Logan, blaming him
for the deaths of the original Doom Patrol. He then proceeds to create
his own team, the Hybrid, to challenge the Teen Titans. After multiple
encounters, the members of the Hybrid defy Dayton and join the Titans in
curing him. Raven cures him of his madness and he seems to discard the
helmet.

Much later, Dayton hires Deathstroke the Terminator to find the Titans
during the Titan Hunt. Afterwards, he becomes  and tries to frame
Deathstroke for murder, but Dayton's dual identity and plans are
revealed and Deathstroke is cleared of all charges. 's plans also
involved nuclear bombs placed across the country, but this is
neutralized by a large gathering of superheroes, mainly current and
former Teen Titans members.

One Year Later

Steve Dayton is revealed to have returned with the rest of the Doom
Patrol. Though a member of the Patrol, he furiously writes novels
(remarking that he intends to entitle the series My Greatest
Adventure), supposedly spurred on by a creative streak created by the
helmet. He also seems to have developed an addiction again to his
helmet, as he claims that Rita is only in love with Mento and not Steve
Dayton. He claims to remember his days as The , calling them "a glitch
in the helmet".

Retaining his age though clean shaven again, Dayton's Mento helmet is
now red, and he wears a black costume with a yellow lightning bolt
across it; this coloration of helmet and costume resembles his original
look from the original incarnation of the Patrol.

Seeing the truth about Dr. Niles Caulder (a.k.a. the Chief), who is
trying to convince Kid Devil to join the Doom Patrol by telling him his
own teammates, the Titans, will always despise him as a freak, Dayton
shakes off his addiction and finally removes the helmet. Thinking
clearly again for the first time in years, he takes the control of the
Doom Patrol from the Chief, claiming respect for the other members of
the squad, and threatening the Chief if he ever reclaimed his leading
role from him.

Mento is later shown, fully in possession of his mental faculties, as an
occasional helper of the Justice League, filling with his cybernetically
augmented mental abilities the role once held by the late Martian
Manhunter. In such a role, he diagnoses Jericho's dissociative identity
disorder, spurring the League to seek professional help for him.

In Final Crisis #6, Mento (along with Miss Martian) is shown amongst a
group of psychics trying to purge the world of the Anti-Life Equation.

In the current (2010) run of the Doom Patrol, Mento is revealed to
have left the Patrol, despite still being in contact with Caulder.
Estranged from his wife, as his marriage failed when Rita found out how
Dayton routinely used his mind-reading powers on her, he's called back
by Caulder to stop an alien hive mind by using Rita's enlarged form as a
proxy. Upon becoming aware of this new violation, Rita decides to break
every remaining tie with him, blaming Caulder too for her mistreatment.


Powers and abilities

Steve Dayton wears a helmet of his own invention that amplifies his own
latent psychic powers. While wearing the helmet, he has the powers of
telepathy, psychokinesis, intangibility, and limited mind control. The
helmet has the negative side effect of increasing Dayton's paranoia and
dementia. Raven is eventually able to cure him of these side effects.


In other media

Television

[Mento as depicted on Teen Titans.]

-   Mento appears in the Teen Titans two-part episode Homecoming,
    voiced by Xander Berkeley. He is depicted as being the Doom Patrol's
    stubborn leader and obsessed with stopping the Brotherhood of Evil.
    As in the comics, he possesses the incredibly powerful psionic
    abilities of telepathy, telekinesis, and clairvoyance. He has issues
    with Beast Boy's inability to follow orders even when the boy's
    actions are justifiable; the implication is that this is the reason
    Beast Boy had left the Doom Patrol and become a Teen Titan. Although
    it is never clarified whether or not Steve is Beast Boy's adoptive
    fatherly figure in the series, he does refer to him as "son" and at
    one time says, "That's my boy".

Miscellaneous

-   Mento appears in issue 7 of the Batman: The Brave and the
    Bold comics.

