MERA is a fictional character appearing in American comic books
published by . Created by Jack Miller and Nick Cardy, the
character first appeared in Aquaman #11 (September 1963) as a queen of
the sea.

American actress Amber Heard has been confirmed to portray Mera in the
upcoming live-action film Justice League. Mera was ranked 81st
in Comics Buyer's Guide's "100 Sexiest Women in Comics" list.


Publication history

Mera's Silver Age debut in Aquaman #11 set her place of origin as the
mysterious "Dimension Aqua". However, during the Brightest Day
crossover, Dimension Aqua was revealed to be the extradimensional penal
colony known formally as Xebel, a place of exile for an ancient faction
of Atlantean people, banished along with their descendants after one of
the many civil wars of the submerged Atlantis.


Fictional character biography

Mera is the former Queen of Dimension Aqua (Xebel), Queen of Atlantis,
and wife of  superhero Aquaman. Mera also has a twin sister
named Hila.

In her first chronological appearance, Mera is shown to be fleeing the
criminal Leron, who seized control of her kingdom, when she arrives on
Earth and meets Aquaman and Aqualad, who vow to help her. Leron captures
them, imprisoning Aquaman and Mera in Dimension Aqua. Aided by the water
spirit known as Quisp, Aquaman manages to free Mera and defeats Leron.
Mera abdicates the throne of Xebel to Queen V'lana, and returns to
Atlantis to marry Aquaman. Soon after, they had a son named Arthur
Curry, Jr., also known as Aquababy.

A few years later, Black Manta kidnapped Aquababy and trapped him inside
a translucent tank designed to suffocate him. Desperate to save her
son Vulko sends Mera on an ambitious crusade to her homeworld to find a
scientist Xebel that has the components for a special healing device
that could save her son. When she arrives, she discovered that her
kingdom has been taken over by the traitorous Leron, who has taken Xebel
hostage casting him and the artifacts into the Great Pit. Mera braves
the pit and defeats Leron and his elemental monsters in order to
retrieve the device. Sadly, she returns to Atlantis too late, finding
her son dead.

Although their son's death created a rift between Aquaman and Mera, they
tried relocating to a flooded city on the East Coast to start a new life
together. It was during this time that Aquaman left to reform the
Justice League in Detroit. Becoming more unstable with grief, she was
committed to an asylum in Atlantis. Shortly afterwards an alien force of
sentient giant jellyfish took control of the city. During Aquaman's
battle to free them, Mera escapes and savagely attacks him, blaming his
"weak genes" for their son's death.

While defending himself, he accidentally pushes her on an upturned piece
of metal. Believing her dead, he had her placed inside a coffin and
taken to the royal palace. However, she survived, due to her alien
physiology. Rising from her coffin, she bitterly reminds Aquaman how
little he really knew of her. No longer seeing any reason to remain on
Earth, Mera left Atlantis and returned to Dimension Aqua.

Real origins

In Brightest Day, Mera's origin is revisited with new revelations,
expanding upon some elements and writing off others as deceptions and
lies fed to Aquaman by Mera herself. Instead of being the Queen of
Dimension Aqua, Mera is now the older princess of Xebel, a forgotten
extradimensional penal colony for an ancient group of separatist
Atlanteans, banished behind a sealed portal in the Bermuda Triangle.

Trained since birth, along with her younger sister Siren, Mera was sent
by the King of Xebel, unable to send more than one soldier at time
through a small fissure in spacetime to the main universe. They were to
confront the current King of Atlantis and kill him in retaliation for
the exile of their common people. However, the plan backfired when Mera
fell truly in love with Arthur, deliberately choosing to keep claiming
her cover story as her real past to avoid frictions with him.

However, on several occasions, like Aquababy's death, Mera's deep-seated
hatred for Atlantis and its royal family was re-ignited, sparking the
bouts of apparent insanity and angry lashing at her husband for his
"weakness". It is also hinted that Black Manta had a long-lasting feud
with Xebel's people: despite Aquaman believing for years to have been
the cause of Aquababy's death, Mera still thinks that her son was killed
to get back at her birth family.

During one of the several attempts to escape en masse from the Bermuda
Triangle portal, the people of Xebel ordered to capture and experiment
on several land-dwellers, including the future Black Manta. During these
grueling experiments a young hybrid, son of Black Manta and an unnamed
woman, was born. While Mera's father wanted to experiment on the child,
using his hybrid nature to escape from the barrier, Mera took pity of
little Kaldur'ahm and, adding a new reason of friction between herself
and her birth family, kidnapped Kaldur'ahm to give him to a caring
family on the surface. Mera never met Kaldur'ahm again for many years,
until a now adolescent Kaldur'ahm was discovered by the Xebel army,
forcing Mera to return in his aid.

Return of the Queen

During Peter David's Aquaman run in the 1990s, Mera is revealed to be
in the hellish dimension called the Netherworld, where she is
brainwashed by Thanatos, an old enemy of her husband. Time passes
differently in the Netherworld and she has apparently had a second son
whom she refers to as only "AJ". AJ appears to be about 8–10 years old
and it is not known if his father is Aquaman or Thanatos.

Eventually, Mera and AJ break free of Thanatos' control, but find that
they cannot stay on Earth due to AJ's accelerated aging. Mera and AJ
again leave Earth for parts unknown. When next shown later in the
series, Mera and AJ are on Oceanid, a waterworld that is being exploited
by aliens for its resources. Mera and AJ team up with Aquaman to defeat
the aliens and Mera chooses to stay with her former husband in Atlantis,
while AJ remains behind on Oceanid to act as its protector and champion,
assuming the role of Aquaman.

Mera and Arthur eventually reconcile, living in Atlantis and continuing
to have adventures together, including a trip to Skartaris, where they
team up with Travis Morgan, The Warlord. They appear to form a true
royal family along with Tempest (Garth of Shayeris) and his wife,
Dolphin (Aquaman's former lover). Mera participates in the delivery of
Garth and Dolphin's son, Cerdian, during this peaceful time.
Unfortunately, the Aqua-family's happiness is cut short due to the
events depicted in 's "Obsidian Age", Infinite Crisis, and "One Year
Later" storylines.

Following these events, Mera is shown leading a rebel faction in the
rebuilding of Atlantis, which was destroyed by the Spectre in Infinite
Crisis. Mera appears in the Aquaman: Sword of Atlantis series during
which Aquaman (having been transformed into the Dweller of the Depths
during 's World War III mini-series) appears to perish. Members of
the JLA visit Atlantis to give their condolences and Mera is not
referenced in  until the "Prelude to Blackest Night" story in
Titans #15, where it is revealed that she is in mourning for Arthur.
This story also reveals that Dolphin and Cerdian died during the
destruction of Atlantis.

"Blackest Night"

[Red Lantern Mera attacking Wonder Woman. Art by Nicola Scott.] In the
Blackest Night storyline, at the request of Tempest, Mera reluctantly
allows Aquaman's remains to be returned to Atlantis. Before they can do
so, they are attacked by Aquaman, Tula, and Dolphin who have been
reanimated as Black Lanterns. Mera and Tempest battle them, but are
overwhelmed by their power. Tempest is killed by Tula and summarily
transformed into a Black Lantern as well. An angry Mera manages to
escape and flees to the Hall of Justice. She sends out a distress
signal, and Firestorm (Jason and Gehenna) come to her aid.

She reveals that she was able to evade the Black Lanterns by keeping her
emotions in check. The Black Lantern Justice League attacks the group.
Gehenna is slain. The Atom helps the heroes escape via a phone line.
The Flash tells Atom and Mera that they are the Justice League now. Atom
and Mera meet up with the Justice Society who are battling Black
Lanterns. The reanimated Jean Loring uses Atom's own technology to
shrink Mera, Atom, and herself.

They fall into the freshly killed Damage's ring. As Mera and Atom
battle Loring inside the black ring, Loring reveals Nekron's plan.
Deadman witnesses their battle and plans to rescue Mera and Atom from
Loring. Deadman saves Mera and Atom by briefly possessing Loring,
allowing Mera and Atom to escape and join the heroes against Nekron and
his army. Fuming after battling and being nearly killed by a ruthlessly
savage Black Lantern-powered Wonder Woman, an angry Mera is chosen
as a deputy officer of the Red Lantern Corps to be more effective
against Nekron's forces. During the battle, Mera is approached once
again by Aquaman, who now has the reanimated corpse of their child.

Aquaman attempts to use their son against her, but Mera states, "I never
wanted children," and destroys the Black Lantern version of Arthur, Jr.
The power of her anger even impresses Atrocitus. She then shows a desire
to hunt down Aquaman and destroy him. Mera then encounters Wonder
Woman, who had been transformed into a Star Sapphire by a duplicate of
Carol Ferris' ring, and attacks her. During the fight, their two rings
interface with each other, the violet light giving Mera some measure of
control over her new-found savagery and provides Wonder Woman with an
insight into the reasons for Mera's rage. Following Nekron's
destruction, Aquaman is restored to life by the white light. The sight
of Arthur alive calms Mera down, breaking her connection to the red ring
and causing her to go into cardiac arrest. Carol and Saint Walker use
their combined lights to restore her to life, and she tearfully reunites
with Aquaman.

"Brightest Day"

Aquaman and Mera spent the night together in the lighthouse of Amnesty
Bay, but in the morning, Mera finds Arthur on the dock, looking at the
sea and wondering why he was resurrected. Mera comforts her husband and
invites him to swim with her, but Arthur is hesitant, seeing only his
Black Lantern form reflected back at him in the water. While
cleaning up an oil spill, she and Aquaman are attacked by soldiers from
Mera's homeworld and leading them is Siren, who bears a striking
resemblance to Mera herself. As Mera pulls her husband away from them,
she reveals that she was sent to kill him, proceeding to confess her
real origins to him.

She also hints that, despite the long-lasting exile of her people,
Xebel's soldiers had been enemies of Black Manta himself from a distant
time, even preceding the first public appearance of Aquaman, and states
that, despite Mera's original mission being a "solo" one, Siren is now
backed by the entire "Death Squad", elite Xebel soldiers at the orders
of the acting princess. Mera then states that Siren is her younger
sister. After being shown a vision by the Entity, Aquaman tells Mera
that he must track down a teenaged boy with an eel tattoo.

Upon hearing Arthur's description of the boy's appearance, Mera looks
shocked and suddenly tells him that she knows who the boy is.
Afterward, her husband, Aquaman started to find the boy himself.
Although not a direct appearance, when Atrocitus faced Hal Jordan in New
York City while looking for "the Butcher", the Emotional Entity of the
Red Lanterns, he creates a construct in the shape of former Red Lantern
Mera to attack.

This prompts Hal Jordan to suggest that Atrocitus "still has a 'sweet
spot' for the Queen of the Seas," to which Atrocitus proclaims he does
not need to explain anything to the Green Lantern. Later, Mera
arrives at Lorena Marquez's place asking for help. Later while
facing Aquaman, Siren apparently lies to him when she tells that her
Death Squad had captured Mera while she was searching for help and that
she had killed Mera herself.

Mera and Aquagirl arrive and aid Aquaman in the battle against Black
Manta and Siren. Mera tells Aquaman that her sister lied about her
condition for unknown reasons. While battling, Mera uses the ultimate
power of hard water to pull Black Manta, Siren and the Death Squad back
into the oceans to prevent any citizens from suffering casualties in the
crossfire. After sending Black Manta and Siren back to the Bermuda
Triangle, Aquaman accepts Mera back and forgives her for not telling him
the truth. However, as they share a kiss, the Entity claims Aquaman by
reducing him into what appears to be white water, leaving Mera
sorrowful. Afterward, Aquaman is returned and reunited with Mera
where he discovered that the Xebel's weapons were effectively made of
Atlantean technology.

The New 52 relaunch

[Mera fights against Black Manta. Aquaman vol. 7 #12. Art by Ivan
Reis.] In The New 52, the 2011 relaunch and retcon of ' entire
superhero line, a greatly disillusioned Aquaman, distressed by the
rejection faced from his fellow Atlanteans and his poor standing as a
superhero, often ridiculed because of his shortcomings and less than
glamorous superpowers, decides to return to Amnesty Bay. Mera follows
him, helping her husband try to find a new place in the world, despite
being saddled from the same ill reputation as the almost useless
"Aquawoman". It is shown that Mera has difficulty adjusting to
society on the outside world and severe problems controlling her anger.
She also aids Arthur and The Others in trying to uncover the mystery
behind the sinking of Atlantis and fights against Black Manta, who tries
to obtain the ancient artifacts of Atlantis.

Following the Throne of Atlantis storyline, Mera is approached by the
police force to arrest her again for violent assault following an
outburst of temper in town. Mera and the police officers discuss
civic virtues and she is confronted by Officer Watson (who knew Aquaman
when they were at school) who reasons with her and tells her to stop
being hostile. She also tells her that she needs to respect the law and
society on the surface. As Mera concedes, she and the police officers
are attacked with the winter storm by the Dead King who demands her to
lead him to the Xebel location. The Dead King drags Mera to the
Bermuda Triangle and opens the Xebel barrier, but Mera manages to escape
from the Dead King. When Mera returns to her previous home of Xebel to
warn them, it is revealed that she was betrothed to Nereus, who is the
current king of Xebel.

He asks Mera "Where the hell have you been?". Nereus is angered when
he discovers Mera is on the side of Atlantis and Aquaman's lover. Mera
and Nereus are frozen in ice by the Dead King. Aquaman arrives to free
Mera and confronts the Dead King, who turns out to be the first king of
Atlantis who plans to rule the Seven Seas once more. During the
fight, Mera frees Nereus and Xebel soldiers to help Aquaman against the
Dead King, but Nereus and Xebel soldiers are bowing to the Dead King,
claiming he is the true king of the Seven Seas.

When Mera and Aquaman escape from Xebel soldiers and arrive at Atlantis,
it is under attack by Scavenger and his men. Aquaman tells Atlantean to
fall back using his physical force ability to summon the Kraken that
attacked Scavenger's men. However, Aquaman is unconscious when the Dead
King and Xebel soldiers arrive. Aquaman revives with Vulko on the
surface world, but Vulko reveals to him that he has been in a coma for
six months. Aquaman asks what happened to Mera after six months;
Vulko said he saw Mera was facing the Dead King.

Later, Mera is imprisoned by the Dead King and Xebel soldiers are
controlling Atlantis. Mera refuses to marry Nereus and warns that she
will kill him if she is released. Aquaman arrives to free Mera and the
Atlanteans, and they battle the Dead King and Xebel soldiers. When the
Dead King is destroyed, Nereus and Xebel soldiers retreat, and Mera
reunites with Aquaman and decides to remain in Atlantis.


Powers and abilities

Mera has the unique ability to form "hard water" objects, as well as
super strength and powers related to her adaptation to live under water.
She has been shown to be powerful enough to control, albeit briefly,
huge amounts of water, enough to pull an entire army out to sea. Due to
her intended role as an infiltrator and a killer, Mera received
extensive training in Xebel, becoming a formidable opponent on her own.


Weaknesses

Earlier stories placed some limits on Mera's abilities, such as
susceptibility to lead. However, her main weakness was her struggle with
mental insanity, made more apparent after A.J.'s death. Once suspected
to be the lingering effect of the psychotic breakdown suffered for the
loss of her only son, with Mera blaming Arthur for his shortcomings, it
has later been revealed to be the byproduct of the torn loyalties
between her duties towards Xebel and her love for Arthur, and the full
knowledge that Black Manta actually hated her (for hiding Jackson from
him) more than Aquaman himself, and thus having to hide her
responsibilities in the events.


Other versions

Flashpoint

In the Flashpoint reality, Mera is the Queen of Atlantis and killed by
the Amazons at some point. Her death prompted Aquaman to cause Western
Europe to sink into the sea, hoping to destroy New Themyscira as
well. Mera's death was ordered by Wonder Woman. In a flashback,
Mera is shown to attack the Queen of New Themyscira, which at that point
was Diana (Wonder Woman), but she was eventually beheaded by Wonder
Woman.


In other media

Television

-   Mera appeared in the 1960s The Superman/Aquaman Hour of Adventure
    television series, voiced by Diane Maddox. The opening narration
    describes her as "an Atlantean woman".
-   Mera appeared in the 2001 Justice League animated series, voiced
    by Kristin Bauer. Her origins are not elaborated on, nor is she
    shown to have the ability to forge structures from hard water as in
    the comics, so she is presumably an Atlantean. She appears in "The
    Enemy Below", "The Terror Beyond", and "Hereafter" (attending
    Superman's funeral with her husband). Bruce Timm's design for Mera
    is inspired by her Silver Age comics look, but adds elegant touches
    of regality such as gold jewelry and transparent green draped
    fabric, as well as a midriff-baring halter.
-   Mera is featured in Batman: The Brave and the Bold, voiced by
    Sirena Irwin. She made a brief cameo as part of Atlantis' royal
    family in the episode "Evil Under the Sea", where she is seated next
    to Aquaman and Orm (Ocean Master). Mera also appears in "Aquaman's
    Outrageous Adventure" where she demands her husband take her and
    Arthur Jr. on a land-based vacation. Mera has greater-than-human
    strength when helping to fight the Penguin's henchmen, but she is
    not shown to have the ability to forge structures from hard water as
    in the comics.
-   Actress Elena Satine portrayed Mera in an episode of the final
    season of Smallville. In this incarnation, she once again was
    Aquaman's wife. Arthur and Mera discovered that Slade Wilson was
    building prisons for superheroes following the passing of the
    Vigilante Registration Act and destroyed one of them. Clark Kent
    went to confront Arthur about this, but Mera, deeming him a threat,
    knocked him aside with her hydrokinesis. As Clark and Arthur went
    off to investigate Slade's operation further (resulting in Arthur
    being kidnapped), Mera was confronted by Lois Lane, who was trying
    to help Clark. At first, Mera deemed Lois a lesser being compared to
    herself, Arthur, Oliver Queen and Clark, until Lois managed to help
    them save Arthur with information on the prisons. Mera managed to
    rescue Oliver and Arthur. Later, before leaving town with Arthur,
    Mera apologized to Lois and admitted that she is a worthy partner of
    equal standing for someone like Clark.
-   Mera appears in the Young Justice episode "Downtime", voiced by
    Kath Soucie. She is Aquaman's wife and queen of Atlantis. She is
    also shown to be an instructor at the Conservatory of Sorcery.
    During Black Manta's assault on the palace, she is shown to be able
    to forge animated hard water constructs. She also has skin markings
    similar to Aqualad's, though hers take the form of the tentacles of
    an octopus and are only visible when using her full power. It is
    also revealed that she is pregnant with her and Aquaman's child. Her
    status as Atlantean or otherwise is not determined.

Film

 Extended Universe

-   Mera will make her live-action film debut in Justice League Part
    One, portrayed by Amber Heard, before starring alongside Jason
    Momoa as Aquaman in Aquaman.

Animation

-   Mera briefly appears in the animated film Justice League: The
    Flashpoint Paradox. In a flashback scene of the distorted timeline,
    she is shown to be murdered during a confrontation with Wonder
    Woman, which Mera blames for seducing her husband away from her,
    which serves as Aquaman's prime motivation for sinking most of
    Europe and waging war against the Amazons. It is believed that
    Aquaman sunk Themyscira and prompted the amazons to attack England
    to claim it as New Themyscira, which Aquaman also attempts to sink,
    but can't because it is protected by a magic barrier.
-   Mera appears as one of the main characters in the animated film
    Justice League: Throne of Atlantis, voiced by Sumalee Montano. She
    is an Atlantean and Queen Atlanna's royal guard. She plays a crucial
    role in finding and saving Arthur Curry. She becomes his love
    interest in the end.

Video games

-   Mera appears via downloadable content as a playable character in
    Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham.

