MERLIN THE MAGICIAN is a fictional character and superhero in the
publications of Quality Comics in the 1940s and, briefly in the 1990s,
by . Merlin first appeared in National Comics #1 (July 1940).
The character is a direct descendant of the Arthurian wizard Merlin and
spent most of his time fighting Nazis, using, as his title page
frequently read, "occult powers to aid democracies in their fight
against oppression."


Fictional character biography

In 1940, while unhappily contemplating his waning fortunes, playboy Jock
Kellog is contacted by a messenger who tells him his eccentric, wealthy
uncle is ill and might be dying. Kellog races to the scene in rural
England, hoping his financial troubles will be ameliorated by a great
inheritance. Instead of the palatial residence he expected, Jock arrives
at a modest cottage. Upon entering, he discovers it is filled with
numerous antiques of Arthurian vintage. Kellog's uncle is indeed dying,
and he tells the young playboy that he is the last of a line of men who
can trace their descent directly from Merlin. Before dying, the old man
gives Kellog a green, hooded cloak and tells him that, while wearing it,
he will inherit all the powers of Merlin himself.

At first, Kellog disbelieves his uncle's story. However, while wearing
the cloak, Kellog instinctively uses magic to save a woman falling from
a building, and comes to accept his uncle's story as true. He thereafter
resolves to use his newfound abilities to aid mankind. Kellog assumes
the name of his magical ancestor, Merlin, and goes about roaming Europe,
fighting Nazis wherever he encounters them.

In 1945, Merlin the Magician was one of several magic and occult heroes
who were contacted by Hourman to help defeat an entity known as
"Stalker". Although the heroes were victorious, Merlin was killed in the
battle. The disposition of his cloak remains unknown, perhaps because
there is no one left of Merlin's line to use it, making the cloak
useless.


Powers and abilities

Merlin possessed somewhat ill-defined but reputedly powerful magical
abilities when wearing his magic cloak. He was shown able to produce
virtually any effect that he could conceive. He could battle gods
single-handedly, instantaneously teleport anywhere in the world, or
summon mythological creatures to do his bidding. He also possessed
astral projection, telekinesis, reality manipulation, and the ability to
bring anyone back to life. Often, he could use his magic by speaking
backwards.


Similarity to other occult heroes

Like numerous other magical heroes of the era, Merlin the Magician
shares some similarities with Lee Falk's popular Mandrake the Magician
strip, particularly in his appearance, which was a stereotypical prewar
"stage magician" look, with a suit, mustache and cape. Like Zatara, who
was similarly descended from a famous predecessor (Leonardo da Vinci),
Merlin the Magician frequently invoked his magical effects by speaking
them backwards (this attribute was given to him in National Comics #12
by writer-artist Fred Guardineer, who had himself previously created the
backwards-talking Zatara for Action Comics).


Appearances

Merlin the Magician's final Quality Comics appearance was in National
Comics #45. The last Merlin feature in National Comics appeared in
issue #26. and thereafter followed an almost fifty-year hiatus for
Merlin during which Quality Comics (or a large part of its stable of
characters) was essentially folded into . He made an appearance
in All Star Comics v.2 #1 (May 1999), as a part of the Justice Society
Returns storyline. In that two-part arc, it was revealed that Merlin
the Magician had actually died in battle with the supernatural entity
known as "Stalker" in 1945.

In 1985, Blackthorne Publishing released some black and white reprints
of early issues of National Comics, including Merlin the Magician's
appearances.

Partial bibliography

-   National Comics #1-45 (1940–1945)
-   All-Star Squadron #31-32 (1984)
-   All-Star Comics v. 2, #1 (1999)

