MERRY PEMBERTON, also known as GIMMICK GIRL and MERRY, GIRL OF 1000
GIMMICKS is a fictional character in the  Universe. She first
appeared in Star-Spangled Comics #81 in June 1948.


Fictional character biography

Born Merry Creamer, she is adopted by Mr. and Mrs. Sylvester Pemberton,
Sr., the parents of the original Star-Spangled Kid. She soon adopts a
crime-fighting persona and works with her brother and Stripesy,
ultimately supplanting them in their own feature. 

Merry eventually marries Henry King, Sr., the supervillain known as the
original Brain Wave. They had one son, Henry, Jr., known as Hank, who
became the super-hero Brainwave, a member of Infinity Inc., a team
founded by his uncle, Sylvester Pemberton, Jr., the Star-Spangled Kid.

References to Merry before the Crisis on Infinite Earths note that she
died at some point. More recently, however, she has been portrayed as
alive. She appears in Young Justice as a member of Old Justice, a team
of former Golden Age sidekicks who feel modern teen heroes are risking
themselves and others. During the Sins of Youth event it is revealed
she particularly resents Stargirl, who at that time had taken her
brother's name. Merry assists dozens of other superheroes, most of whom
had changed ages, in battling Klarion the Witch Boy and other villains.
Old Justice finds itself in the parental role of supervising many
super-powered adolescents. She makes her peace with Stargirl, who has
become an adult woman temporarily. During a multi-character battle in
Alaska, Stargirl even saves Merry from an attacking, younger Amazo. By
the end of the story Merry has made her peace with both Stargirl and
younger heroes in general.

After the JSA rescues her son from Black Adam and Mister Mind, Merry
takes him back into her care.


Gimmix

In Seven Soldiers #0, a new character named GIMMIX appears. Credited
as Jacqueline Pemberton, Merry's estranged daughter, Gimmix uses her BAG
OF TRIX to do light hero work, mostly appearing at conventions talking
about how she met up with better-known heroes such as Aquaman and
Booster Gold. Some of her gimmicks include Zoom Glasses, Anti-Spider
lipstick, "What Every Girl Needs" ice spray, and an unnamed gimmick
which can turn water into wine (although not very good wine). Jacqueline
becomes part of an ill-fated team of six superheroes rounded up by Greg
Saunders and is killed by the Sheeda, an advanced race which feeds on
its own history to survive. In Zatanna #1, she is shown attending
group therapy for Metas.

In 52, it is revealed that Jacqueline was the head of the Pemberton
Estate, and since her death has not been officially recorded, the estate
is bought by Lex Luthor for the trademarks of Skyman and Infinity Inc..



Powers and abilities

Merry had no superpowers but wore a costume that contained various
devices and gimmicks within which she used as weapons to fight crime.

