METAMORPHO (real name REX MASON, also called THE ELEMENT MAN) is a
fictional superhero in the . He is a founding member of the Outsiders,
and has also joined multiple incarnations of the Justice League.


Publication history

Metamorpho's creator, Bob Haney, had seen success with  in 1963
with the titles Metal Men and Doom Patrol, featuring bands of
superheroes exhibiting fantastic powers. Under the editorial management
of George Kashdan, Haney was asked to capitalize on these titles'
popularity with a similar character. Metamorpho, the Element Man,
debuted in The Brave and the Bold #57 (January 1965).

As first conceived, Metamorpho was a parody of the fantastic characters
that populated comic books in the 1960s. Artist Ramona Fradon was
coaxed out of maternity retirement to illustrate Metamorpho's first
appearances. The popularity of Metamorpho's appearances in The Brave
and the Bold led to a 17-issue ongoing series between 1965 and 1968.
Metamorpho also appeared during this time in two issues of Justice
League of America (#42 & #44) and became the second superhero to
decline an invitation to join that organization (Adam Strange being the
first), though he did become a reservist, eventually being called in
during a Justice League/Justice Society crossover to help find and
rescue the Seven Soldiers of Victory.

Metamorpho appears on the cover of Aquaman #30 as one of the
pallbearers (along with Batman, Hawkman, and Superman) at the "Sea
King's Funeral". Metamorpho also appears in a series of backup
stories in Action Comics #413–418 and World's Finest Comics #218–220
and #229.

In 1975, Metamorpho appeared in 1st Issue Special #3, a brief series
consisting of one-shots of new and established  characters.
That issue was written by Bob Haney and illustrated by Ramona Fradon,
Metamorpho's original creators.

After becoming a charter member of the Outsiders in 1983, and member of
the European branch of the Justice League International, Metamorpho
received his own 4-issue mini-series in 1993.

In 2005,  reprinted Metamorpho's early The Brave and the Bold
appearances and the entirety of the 1965 series as one of the company's
volumes of Showcase Presents.

In 2007, Dan Jurgens launched the 6-issue series Metamorpho: Year One

As part of a Wednesday Comics, Neil Gaiman wrote a 12-page Metamorpho
story that Mike Allred illustrated. In 2016 he starred in a new comic
book series titled 's Legends of Tomorrow


Fictional character biography

Rex Mason is an adventurer who is hired by Stagg Enterprises CEO, Simon
Stagg, to retrieve a rare Egyptian artifact, the Orb of Ra. Shortly
after hiring him, Simon Stagg learns that Mason has been dating his
daughter, Sapphire Stagg. This and other incidents begin to fuel in
Stagg a dislike for Mason that ultimately leads to a plot to kill him.

In an Egyptian pyramid, Rex Mason is knocked out by Simon's brutish
bodyguard, Java, and is eventually exposed to a radioactive meteorite
from which the Orb of Ra was fashioned. A tremendous flare-up of its
radiation transforms Mason into Metamorpho, the Element Man. He gains
the ability to shapeshift and change himself into any element or
combination of elements found in the human body. It is also established
in his origin story (see: The Brave & The Bold #57) that Metamorpho is
virtually invulnerable in his inert (untransformed) state, when Stagg,
afraid that Rex is going to kill him, shoots him point-blank without
effect. The Orb of Ra, however, has the same effect on Rex that
kryptonite has on Superman. Thus Stagg continues to control Metamorpho
using the Orb. Later, it is revealed that Mason is but one of many
metamorphae, created by the sun god Ra – using the meteorite – to serve
as warriors in his battle against the god Apep, _"the serpent who never
dies."_

Metamorpho, unlike most super-humanoids described in , cannot
assume a normal, fully human appearance, being no longer composed of
flesh, blood and bone. As such, he regards his metamorphic powers as a
disease and seeks a cure for his condition. Because he considers himself
a freak and wishes only to be restored to his former human state, he
rejects an offer of membership from the Justice League of America. Green
Lantern attempts to change him back using his power ring, but due to a
"yellow" component of the meteorite radiation, is unable to make him
normal again.

Metamorpho briefly has a crimefighting partner named Urania "Rainie"
Blackwell, a woman who deliberately exposed herself to the Orb to gain
its powers. She calls herself Element Girl and works with him on a
number of cases.

Issues #16–17 were intended to show a new direction for the series, with
Sapphire marrying a man named Wally Bannister and Metamorpho going off
with a mysterious Mr. Shadow to deal with an immortal queen. Bent on
world conquest, the queen (an exact lookalike of Sapphire's) marries
Metamorpho. She later steps outside her mystic city and instantly ages
2,000 years.

When Wally Bannister is murdered by Algon (a metamorph who has lived for
centuries in a depowered state), Metamorpho is framed. Instead coming to
his defense against the false accusations, Metamorpho's colleague Mr.
Shadow comes forth as an enemy. It is discovered that Mr. Shadow was
attempting to enslave Metamorpho all along. Metamorpho is tried and
convicted by a jury of rabble and is then executed. Element Girl later
revives Metamorpho, and Algon, the real murderer, is killed by molten
lava minerals in an attempt to regain his burned-out powers. It is later
learned that Mr. Bannister's murder was actually engineered by the
villainous Prosecutor, who is killed by an insectoid villain in a
cocoon. At this point, issue #17 ends, and the story is never continued.

Metamorpho reappears years later in The Brave and the Bold #101
(April–May 1972). It is revealed that Metamorpho had spent the period
after the end of his own series immersed in a painful chemical bath
concocted by Stagg in an attempt to cure his condition. Stagg retrieves
him from this "cure" too early because he needs Mason to save his
endangered daughter Sapphire. Metamorpho goes on to star in a new backup
series beginning in Action #413 (June 1972). There is no reference in
this revival series to the events or characters of his previous two
issues.

Urania Blackwell, unreferenced since the end of the regular series, is
later revealed to have ended her partnership with Metamopho when her
unrequited attraction to him became too much for her. Blackwell's powers
are removed at her own request by the sun god Ra, resulting in her
death; the episode, in Neil Gaiman's Sandman,_ involves Death. Death
mentions Algon's death in passing, trying to convince Blackwell that she
won't live forever.

Outsiders

Metamorpho spends some time working with the Outsiders. While in the
despotically ruled country of Mozombia, Metamorpho is subdued and taken
apart. The tyrant's forces keep him inert with a constant application of
radiation. He is freed by Katana's indestructible sword, which had been
latched onto a live electrical wire.

While leaving Mozombia, the Outsiders' plane is shot down by the Bad
Samaritan. Metamorpho and the others spend some time stranded on a
deserted island, simply too far away from land to rescue themselves.

Metamorpho perishes, for the first of multiple times, during the
Millennium event. The scientific adviser to the Outsiders, Dr.
Jace, had decided that life with the more logical Manhunters was
preferable and she betrayed the team. They fought back, but
Metamorpho had been brainwashed into assisting Jace. He was killed
in the resulting battle. He returns during the Invasion
miniseries, when a gene-bomb set off by invading aliens affected his
biomass.

Justice League

Metamorpho spent some time with the Justice League, including Justice
League Europe. There, he encounters Sapphire Stagg again. He becomes
involved in a battle with the Metal Men, who had been tricked by Simon.
His League friends, Rocket Red and Animal Man, were at the site of the
battle, but were being detained by Java. At the conclusion of the
battle, Metamorpho learns he had a son with Sapphire. Unfortunately, the
baby boy's touch harmed all but Sapphire and Metamorpho. When Java held
the baby, his arms melted. Metamorpho handed the baby over to Simon, who
became convinced he would die, harmed like Java had been moments ago.
However, something in his genetic structure protected him, just as it
did with the baby's mother. Simon's stance softened and everyone was set
free. Doc Magnus, the leader of the Metal Men, offered his services in
creating new arms for Java. On the way home, Metamorpho's friends were
puzzled as to how he knew Simon would be unaffected by the child.
Metamorpho indicates that he had hoped the baby would kill Simon.

Metamorpho would later have a romantic relationship with Crimson Fox,
which was cut short by her apparent murder. His personal investigation
of the incident uncovers multiple layers of lies and deceit. During his
time with the team, while fighting the planet-smashing aliens called The
Family, Metamorpho is hit by a powerful energy blast that destroys his
body. He quickly re-forms in a totally different look. He will sport
this new look until his next demise.

Second death

Later, the Hyperclan attacked the Justice League of America's orbiting
base, destroying it. Metamorpho protected three of his teammates,
Nuklon, Obsidian, and the original Icemaiden, in a giant, fluid filled
ball. The intent was for them to survive reentry into Earth's
atmosphere. The three make it, injured but alive, but Metamorpho does
not. He was buried with solemn honors. After a temporary resurrection by
the wish-granting Id (fundamentally flawed because the wisher, his son
Joey, only wished for him to be back rather than to be alive), he
would return some time later.

Return

Sapphire Stagg used the Orb of Ra to bring Metamorpho back to life, and
he briefly joined the Doom Patrol. Shortly thereafter, an accident with
one of Simon Stagg's experiments turned Simon, Sapphire, and Joey into
an energy being, and caused Metamorpho to take on the form and
personality of Java. "Java" kidnapped Black Canary, asking for her help
in rescuing the others. With Canary's help, he became Metamorpho again
and managed to return the others to their normal forms.

Outsiders / "Shift"

At the same time, Metamorpho had seemingly been appearing in the
Outsiders (vol. 3) series, but Rex Mason informed the team that their
"Metamorpho" is a regrown fragment of his own body. Rex attempts to
reassimilate his "twin," but the Outsiders convinced him that the "twin"
deserves the chance to lead his own life. This second Metamorpho chose
the name "Shift" and developed a relationship with Indigo, becoming
depressed over her death. After the events of One Year Later, Shift
willingly chose to be reassimilated into Metamorpho, because he had
killed several people. Rex has stepped in to fill Shift's position in
the Outsiders, while a full account of Shift's crimes is explained in
the Outsiders (vol. 3) Annual; he had inadvertently killed 44 people
during Black Lightning's escape from Iron Heights Penitentiary.

Metamorpho continued to serve on the Outsiders when Batman took over,
and following its further restructuring following Batman's apparent
death. He was apparently killed alongside the rest of the team in a
satellite explosion orchestrated by Talia al Ghul.

The New 52

In the rebooted continuity of The New 52, the Outsiders are revealed to
have survived. It is mentioned that Metamorpho was able to save the team
by using the same technique he used to rescue the Justice League during
the Hyperclan's attack many years ago. He is also shown as one of
the candidates for the new Justice League International, but he is
ultimately not chosen.


Powers and abilities

Metamorpho can transmute his body to any of a wide variety of elemental
compounds and form it to his will. Originally, he was limited to the
elements which occur naturally in the human body. Over time, this
limitation seems to have disappeared. He can alter the shapes and
consistencies of these elements and combine them to form complex
compounds. Rex can assume forms of gas, liquid or solid states.

Metamorpho can also shape parts and portions of his body instead of the
whole. He can form such complex shapes as a tank and a bicycle and such
simple forms as a cloud or a spring.

The nature of Rex's body provides him with natural body armor offering
damage resistance from blunt attacks and energy attacks.


Other versions

Justice

Rex Mason/Metamorpho appears in the 12-issue mini-series Justice, as a
member of the Justice League.

JLA: The Nail

In the Elseworlds story JLA: The Nail, an unstable Metamorpho makes
an appearance at Lexcorp tower in Metropolis, until being reasoned with
J'onn J'onzz, before his death.

The New Frontier

In Darwyn Cooke's 12-issue series, : The New Frontier, Metamorpho
appears with the rest of the Justice League at the end of the
series.

Batman: Arkham Knight

In Batman: Arkham Knight prequel comic, Metamorpho was the result of a
project named PROJECT: META, an attempt to turn mud obtained from
Clayface into weaponry by Stagg Enterprises. The project's head
scientist, upon seeing Batman and Deadshot snooping around his lab,
opened fire on the pair with a laser rifle, hitting the tank storing
Metamorpho and freeing it. After a brief fight, which resulted in
Metamorpho escaping into Stagg Enterprises' parking lot, Batman was
engulfed. Using his Line Launcher, Batman escaped and threw three Sonic
Batarangs into its body, which exploded inside it. Batman then took some
samples for later study.


In other media

Television

-   According to Norm Prescott, six episodes of a series starring
    Metamorpho were completed and ready to air in 1960s, but the entire
    series was shelved when CBS chose to rush The Batman/Superman Hour
    on its schedule.
-   Metamorpho appears in Batman: The Brave and the Bold, voiced by
    Scott Menville. This version is a teenager who was a member of the
    Outsiders (along with Katana and Black Lightning) and is shown to be
    a happy-go-lucky goofball and easily gets distracted by food (being
    that his abilities apparently require lots of energy to use). In
    "Enter the Outsiders!", they worked for Slug until Batman and
    Wilat convinced them to become crimefighters. Metamorpho helps in
    saving Wilat's life when his heart stops in the middle of a fight.
    Katana has Metamorpho turn into oxygen in order to revive Wilat.
    Metamorpho is later seen with Katana and Black Lightning in a
    training simulation in "Duel of the Double Crossers!". His
    insecurities about his appearance and his repressed anger are shown
    in a nightmare created by Psycho-Pirate in "Inside the Outsiders!".
    He reappeared along with the rest of the Outsiders (Black Lightning,
    Katana, Geo-Force and Halo), a bit older, in the teaser to "Requiem
    for a Scarlet Speedster!", helping Batman stop Kobra and
    his cultists.
-   Metamorpho appears in Beware the Batman, voiced by Adam Baldwin. A
    security guard who worked at Stagg Industries, Rex Mason was in a
    relationship with Sapphire Stagg much to the dismay of Simon Stagg.
    In "Toxic", he investigates an alarm that was set off in Stagg
    Industries, chasing a masked figure into the Project Metamorpho lab.
    Unbeknownst to Rex, the masked figure was Stagg wanting to use Rex
    for an experiment that would turn him into an elemental
    super-soldier as Rex is exposed to the gas. Rex was saved by Batman
    and awoke in the hospital. When visited by Stagg, Rex apologized to
    his boss for secretly romancing Sapphire. When Rex went to the
    bathroom upon experiencing nausea, he began to transform into
    Metamorpho as a nearby police officer began to fire his gun on him.
    Metamorpho escaped from the hospital and went on a rampage near the
    Queen Street Gallery. Batman attempted to stop Metamorpho who
    escaped the restraints and collapsed a building. Before disappearing
    into the sewers, Metamorpho told Batman to 'tell her not to
    be afraid'. Batman had acquired a sample of Metamorpho and had it
    analyzed where his cellular structure is becoming unstable due to
    the gas exposure. Batman came to the conclusion that Metamorpho will
    die soon. Upon sneaking into Stagg Industries, Batman learned the
    truth about Metamorpho. Metamorpho snuck into Sapphire's bedroom and
    assured Sapphire that he is still Rex on the inside. Batman arrived
    and accused Stagg of Rex's transformation into Metamorpho. Though
    Sapphire refused to believe it, Metamorpho believed the fact. This
    caused Metamorpho to lose control and he fought Batman again with
    Sapphire ending up accidentally tasered during the fight. Metamorpho
    fled with Sapphire's body to Stagg Industries to get revenge
    on Simon. While Stagg unknowingly stalled Metamorpho, Batman made an
    antidote by the time Stagg led Metamorpho to the "Project
    Metamorpho" lab where the antidote failed to cure Metamorpho.
    Metamorpho questioned Sapphire about loving who he was in the
    outside where Sapphire admitted not feeling the same anymore.
    Metamorpho shattered the emergency ventilator and vanished. Presumed
    dead by Batman, Stagg and Sapphire, Metamorpho reconstituted
    underground in secret. In "Monsters", Metamorpho re-surfaces several
    months later as the Golem of Old Gotham. With better control of his
    powers, he has been taking down gangs of thugs in high-tech armor
    and weapons that have been terrorizing citizens in Old Gotham, while
    hiding away from public eye. Batman and Katana encounter him and end
    up teaming up with him against the criminals, who unbeknownst to
    him, were organized by Sapphire to drive the citizens out and buy
    the land for profit, while Sapphire is also not aware that he
    is alive. Rex embraces the 'Metamorpho' name, accepting his powers
    as a gift to make a difference, and becomes an ally to Batman
    and Katana. In "Alone", Metamorpho assists Man-Bat and Katana into
    helping Batman fight Deathstroke. With a chemical made by Man-Bat,
    Metamorpho ends up using it to wipe out Deathstroke's memory of
    Bruce Wayne being Batman.
-   On August 8, 2013, Arrow executive producer Marc Guggenheim
    tweeted a picture of production art for the third episode of season
    2, featuring a logo on a van for "Metamorpho Chemical", hinting at
    Metamorpho being featured in the show. In that episode "Broken
    Dolls", the logo on the van helped Oliver track the Dollmaker's
    location to the abandoned Metamorpho Chemical factory, after he
    kidnaps Laurel Lance and Officer Lance.

 Animated Universe

[Metamorpho in Justice League Unlimited.]

-   Metamorpho appeared in the Justice League animated series, voiced
    by Tom Sizemore. Rex Mason was a friend of John Stewart's from when
    they were Marines and the fiancé of Sapphire Stagg. In the two-part
    "Metamorphosis", Rex was exposed to mutagenic gas by his boss Simon
    Stagg as a test subject, transforming him into a shape-shifting
    metahuman Metamorpho. Stagg then convinced Rex that the Green
    Lantern was responsible in order supposedly to steal Sapphire. Once
    he realizes Stagg is behind all of Rex's misfortune, Rex's attempts
    at revenge results in a giant monster (with part of Stagg's mind)
    which that rampages throughout Metropolis threatens to
    harm Sapphire. Mason sacrifices himself to stop the creature by
    turning into the chemical formula to neutralize it. Apparently
    killed, a single tear from Sapphire falls into his liquefied
    remains, allowing Mason to regenerate into his humanoid form.
    Metamorpho is Green Lantern's suggestion to be a possible member in
    the Justice League after Superman is sent into the future by the
    Toyman in "Hereafter".
-   Metamorpho makes several non-speaking appearances in Justice League
    Unlimited. He is seen in a still shot with the rest of the expanded
    Justice League roster in "Initiation". It's also implied (in "The
    Once and Future Thing Part Two: Time Warped") that Warhawk
    (Rex Stewart) is named after Rex Mason. Metamorpho assists in
    fighting Parasite in but has his powers stolen by the villain
    (before Parasite's defeat by Captain ) in "Clash", and helps
    battle against the Ultimen clones in "Panic in the Sky" and
    Darkseid's Parademons in "Destroyer".

Film

-   Metamorpho can be seen as one of the several heroes at the end of
    Justice League: The New Frontier.
-   In Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths, a Parallel Earth version
    of Metamorpho, named MEGAMORPHO, can be seen on Joker's counterpart
    computer, as a made-men of Superwoman.

Miscellaneous

-   Metamorpho appears in Justice League Unlimited's spin-off comic
    book, issue #31.

