MIRAGE is the name of two  characters. The first was a minor
villain of Batman. The second is a heroine who is affiliated with the
Teen Titans.


Batman foe

The first Mirage was a man named Mike (also referred to as "Kerry
Austin") and appeared in Detective Comics #511 (February 1982). He
uses a gem that causes people to see elaborate illusions. He commits
crimes while his victims are occupied fighting against these illusions.
This crime wave brings him to the attention of Batman. Batman faces
Mirage several times before coming up with a strategy to beat him.
During the encounter, Mirage's gem is destroyed. Batman is able to
defeat him and sent him to jail. While in jail, Mirage manages to create
contact lenses from fragments of his jewel. He proceeds to create the
illusion of himself in jail and escapes to the circus he once worked
for. Starting another crime wave, Batman is once again alerted to his
actions. This time, Batman easily beats him and sent him back to prison.
Mirage also fought Manhunter once using his illusion so successfully, he
nearly kills the bounty hunter.

Following the Infinite Crisis, Mirage is freed from prison again. He is
killed in 52 #25 (2006) by Bruno Mannheim. Mannheim bashes Mirage's
head into the "Crime Bible" and sends his body to the kitchen to be
prepared for Mannheim to eat, revealing Mannheim is a cannibal.

Powers and abilities

Mike can create believable illusions in the minds of the people around
him by using a gem of unknown origin. The gem projects both optical and
audio stimuli.


Miriam Delgado

MIRAGE (MIRIAM DELGADO) is a fictional character owned by . She
is a former Teen Titan.

Fictional character biography

She was originally one of the Teen Titans who came from the future to
kill Donna Troy before she could give birth to her son, who, in Mirage's
future, became the evil dictator Lord Chaos.

After Donna sacrificed her powers to prevent that future from becoming
real, Mirage and the other Team Titans relocated to Donna's farm in New
Jersey. She had to deal with Killowat's intense crush on her and the
more malicious intents of another man. Mirage was raped by her former
lover Deathwing and became pregnant with his child. For a while she
deceived her friends, using her powers to make it seem as if she had
lost the child.

Mirage is part of the honor guard that escorts Superman's body to his
tomb.

During the Zero Hour crisis, she found out she wasn't from an alternate
timeline, but from this one. She was, in fact, a runaway street urchin
from Brazil, whom the Time Trapper had kidnapped and implanted with
false memories. Mirage remained a member of Arsenal's Titans team.
During this time, her powers fluctuated. She experienced uncontrolled
illusions. She found she could project an image to a spot where she was
not and remain hidden all the same.

Eventually, she gave birth to a daughter, Julienne, and left the Titans
to spend time with her.

She helps the Titans to save former Titan Cyborg in the Technis
Imperative storyline. During a confrontation with the Justice League
during this incident, she tricks the Martian Manhunter with an image of
his dead wife and is violently subdued. She reappears again, alongside
other former Titans, to help the new incarnation of the Titans defeat
Dr. Light in the 3-part Lights Out storyline. Mirage was one of the
Titans that battled Superboy-Prime near Smallville, Kansas in Infinite
Crisis #4 and Teen Titans vol. 3, #32. She also rejoined the Titans
for a brief period during the "one year gap".

In Teen Titans #99, she was one of the former Titans that came to aid
the Teen Titans in the battle between Superboy-Prime.

Other versions

-   Teen Titans Go #48 features a version of Mirage (who resembles
    Raven) as a member of the Teen Titans in another reality.
-   Lord Chaos' rise to power soon resulted in Earth becoming a mobile
    battle platform. Miri became captain of a resistance ship, which
    Chaos took.

