MISS MARTIAN (real name M'GANN M'ORZZ, alias MEGAN MORSE) is a fictional
superhero in .


Publication history

Miss Martian was created by Geoff Johns and Tony Daniel and first
appeared in Teen Titans #37 (2006). Miss Martian is named "Megan
Morse" after  editor Ben Morse's wife, Megan. Morse is a
friend of Johns'.


Fictional character biography

Miss Martian is a White Martian known as M'gann M'orzz. She serves as a
member of the Teen Titans during the year between the events depicted in
Infinite Crisis and the "One Year Later" stories. On Earth, she
simplifies her name to Megan Morse.

M'gann M'orzz was originally sent by rocket from Mars to the Vega
system, to escape the civil war between the Green Martians and the White
Martians. To date, it is still unknown when she came to Earth from
Vega.

Initially, M'gann pretended to be a Green Martian, like the Martian
Manhunter, and joined the Teen Titans. After her feelings were hurt
through insensitivity and misunderstanding with her teammates, M'gann
left the Titans to be a hero in Australia. Though the Titans suspected
she might have been a traitor, it turned out that her accuser,
Bombshell, was the actual traitor. After helping the team defeat
Bombshell and proving her loyalty, she was accepted as a full member of
the Titans.

[Miss Martian of the future, with an apparition of Martian Manhunter.
Art by Alé Garza.]M'gann and Cyborg travel to Belle Reve to interrogate
the depowered Bombshell. M'gann, using her telepathy on Bombshell,
discovers the existence of Titans East (Bombshell is seemingly murdered
by a mind-controlled Batgirl soon thereafter, but eventually
recovers). M'gann fights Sun Girl, who claims to be from a future in
which Martians are slaves because of something that M'gann will do (Sun
Girl also claims that in the future M'gann will be her slave). Unable to
convince Sun Girl to tell her what she will do in the future, M'gann
dives into the ocean and then hits Sun Girl with a mass of water,
dousing her flames.

The Titans Tomorrow appear with Miss Martian as a member. She has a
different look, having embraced her White Martian heritage. Having
changed her name to Martian Manhunter, she is beheaded by her
present-day counterpart. As a result of this encounter, the
consciousness of her future self has taken refuge in Megan's own
mind. An epilogue to the "Titans of Tomorrow: Today!" storyline
depicts Miss Martian eight years in the future; she colludes with Lex
Luthor and Tim Drake, the Robin of the time and with whom she is having
an affair, to clone several deceased Titans, including Superboy and Kid
Flash.

Megan is attacked by Disruptor of the Terror Titans, whose weapons
almost separate her from her future self. Megan is captured and
thrown into a room with Kid Devil, who has been savagely conditioned
into a mindless beast. She attempts to calm his mind with her telepathy
but unfortunately a reincarnated version of Granny Goodness has found a
way to inhibit her Martian abilities.

Megan finally manages to restore Eddie's rational mind, and the two
escape. Back at Titans Tower, Megan implies that the encounter with
Disruptor has allowed her to subdue her future self's consciousness. Her
future counterpart seems still able to communicate with her, but M'gann
shushes her effortlessly by the simple threat of siccing the cute
puppies on her, e.g. feeding her images of cuteness and love.

Later, however, Megan begins showing signs of being unable to subdue her
evil self, such as appearing before the team having chalk-white skin as
opposed to her usually preferred green skin. She seems as surprised at
this as the rest of the team, and later finally comes to the conclusion
to leave the Titans for an unknown period of time. Before leaving,
however, she says goodbye to the Titans and admits to Eddie that she
will miss him the most, to which he questions if she is comparing him to
the Scarecrow from The Wizard of Oz.

Teen Titans writer Sean McKeever has stated that Megan's departure
from the Titans is part of a longer story he is working on and that she
will return to the team at a later time.

Megan appears in the final issue of the Terror Titans miniseries,
having been posing as Star-Spangled Kid in The Dark Side Club's
metahuman fights. She had been using her immunity to Clock King's mind
control to slowly free the other brainwashed metahumans.

Megan is briefly seen as part of an underground resistance cell in
Final Crisis #5 (Dec. 2008). She rejoins the Titans in the aftermath
of their failed recruitment drive, bringing new members Static and
Aquagirl with her. In the same story, Megan hints that she has rid
herself of her future counterpart's consciousness from her mind.

When Beast Boy returns to lead the Titans in the wake of Kid Devil's
death, Megan is the only member of the team who is willing to support
him. While the rest of the team is busy arguing with him, Megan is
attacked and captured by a new villain known as Wyld. After a vigorous
battle, Megan is rescued by her teammates.

At some point prior to this, Megan is seen operating on a solo mission
where she defeats Brick after he attempts to abduct a young girl and
hold her for ransom. Seconds after flooring the kidnapper, Megan is
visited by Jay Garrick, who recruits her for some unknown purpose.
In the finale of Justice League: Cry for Justice, it is revealed that
Garrick recruited her in order to help interrogate Prometheus, who had
destroyed Star City. When she attempts to read his mind, Megan is
knocked out by specialized mental defenses Prometheus put in place after
an encounter with the Martian Manhunter.

Megan later accompanies her fellow Titans to the city of Dakota in order
to look for Static after he goes missing. After Wonder Girl, Aquagirl,
and Bombshell are kidnapped as well, the remaining Titans track them to
an armored bunker. Megan tries to fight off a powerful metahuman
gangster named Holocaust, but he is somehow able to resist her
telepathic assault and knock her unconscious. After awakening, Megan
realizes that she had accidentally struck Raven with a mental barrage,
which has now left her comatose. On the way back to Titans Tower, Raven
is kidnapped by Wyld.

Till'All

Miss Martian is introduced very soon after a Martian Manhunter
miniseries wherein J'onn befriends a male white martian named Till'All
and introduces him to the Justice League. It is speculated that
originally it was to be revealed that M'Gann was in fact Till'All, and
this revelation was retconned to her being a female white martian
because  editorial became uncomfortable with the idea of martian
transvestism after she was shown in romantic situations with several
characters.

Brightest Day

During Brightest Day, Megan is asked by Batman to contact Starman
after he is captured by a crazed Alan Scott. After coming aboard the
Justice League Watchtower, she mentally reaches out to Starman and
begins to relay information about his prison, only to transform into her
White Martian form and attack the Justice League. Before Megan can
injure any of her fellow heroes, she is knocked unconscious by Power
Girl, who implies that she had been possessed by the Starheart, the
cosmic entity that granted Alan his powers.

Around this time, the recently resurrected Martian Manhunter contacts
Titans Tower in order to talk to Megan, and is told by Superboy that she
has taken a leave of absence from the team. He heads to Australia to
find Megan and see if she has any information about a string of murders
that seem to have been committed by a fellow Martian, only to find her
tied up and severely beaten. While tending to her, J'onn is
contacted by the Entity, and Megan's wounds fully recover. She also
senses that there is another Martian on Earth. When J'onn asks Megan
who did this to her, Megan says she was attacked by a female green
Martian.

After a mission to rescue Raven from Wyld's dimension, Megan is left in
a coma. Cyborg and a scientist named Rochelle Barnes take Megan to
Cadmus Labs in order to find a way to help her, and Static (who had lost
his powers after the battle with Wyld) comes along with her, stating
that she should have a Titan by her side while she recovers. The issue
ends with a note stating that the story will be resolved in a new Static
solo series, which will launch sometime in 2011.

No longer a member of the Titans, Miss Martian is later attacked by a
teenaged psychic named Alexander, who kidnaps her and uses her as bait
to lure Supergirl into a trap. After defeating Supergirl, M'gann
uses her abilities to help brainwash Blue Beetle and Robin into serving
Alexander. It is later revealed, however, that Miss Martian was
never under Alexander's control to begin with; she had merely pretended
to be while using her telepathy to tell Supergirl her plan. Miss Martain
then force feeds Alexander's mind with mental feedback, distracting him
enough for Supergirl to subdue him.

Along with a number of other former Titans, M'gann returns to assist the
team during their final battle against Superboy-Prime and the Legion of
Doom. Working together with Solstice, M'gann defeats her old nemesis
Sun Girl.

The New 52

In The New 52 (a reboot of the  universe), Red Robin is shown
watching a press conference where Lex Luthor shows off photographs of
M'gann as part of a presentation about alien life on Earth.


Powers and abilities

Miss Martian possesses abilities similar to Martian Manhunter and all
other Martians. She has superhuman strength and stamina comparable to
that of a Kryptonian. She is invulnerable and has been shown to repel
attacks from the likes of Despero. She can enhance this invulnerability
by making herself super dense. This invulnerability also extends to her
being able to survive in the vacuum of space. She also has the ability
to shapeshift and she can use this to regenerate herself at a rapid
rate. Her shapeshifting can be used at will and in an unlimited
application, including adopting human or monstrous appearance,
elongating her limbs, growing to immense size, altering the chemical
composition of her body, etc. This also extends to her being able to
expand or lengthen her limbs or to create natural body weapons. This
control over her molecular structure also gives her the abilities of
invisibility and intangibility.

She is a powerful psychic with major applications of this being
telepathy and telekinesis. She can use the telekinesis to manipulate,
move, control, levitate many objects. She can also use her telekinesis
to fly. Her telepathy is one of her strongest abilities and allows her a
wide variety of abilities including mind reading, communication by the
mind, projecting her thoughts, creating illusions, locating other
sentient beings, mental detection, mental cloak, mental scan,
controlling others' minds, manipulating memory, inducing sleep, astral
travel, and transferring information to people directly. Her psionic
abilities can also manifest themselves in a telekinetic blast/push or a
telekinetic shield. A further application of her powers is Martian
vision, in which she expels energy from her eyes. Martians have nine
senses compared to humans, which gives them stronger perception of the
world.

As an adult in the Titans of Tomorrow... Today!_ storyline, M'gann's
default physical form is that of a White Martian having embraced her
heritage (and Martian physiology reflecting their state of mind). To
compensate for her pyrophobia, adult M'Gann wears a forcefield that
protects her from flame.


Weakness

Like all Martians, she can be weakened by fire. This comes in the form
of pyrophobia, with fire being the Martian's "Achilles heel", equivalent
to Kryptonians weakness to Kryptonite. Exposure to fire typically causes
her to lose the ability to maintain her physical form, 'melting' into a
pool of writhing green plasma. It was revealed, during the Trial By
Fire storyline, that the Martian weakness to fire is an inbuilt
psychosomatic effect, placed in the Martian race long ago by the
Guardians of the Universe. The purpose of this was to prevent the
Martians from reverting to a previous state in which they were highly
aggressive, on the verge of interstellar conquest, and required flames
and the psychic suffering of others in order to reproduce.


Other versions

Smallville Season 11

Miss Martian is featured in Smallville Season 11 based on the TV
series. In this continuity, M'gann is a White Martian captive of
Checkmate, and is looked after by King Faraday, a scientist who begins
to bond with her after the death of his own daughter. She begins to
adapt an appearance based on Faraday's deceased daughter and is named
"Megan Morse". After his death, Megan begins a killing spree on people
who are "evil" until Batman and Martian Manhunter find her. Although
there are tensions between them at first, she bonds with J'onn and she
becomes his protege/niece. She later joins Jay Garricks team of Titans
and enters into a relationship with Conner Kent 

Smallville: Titans

Miss Martian is a member of the team with Conner Kent/Superboy, Speedy,
Blue Beetle, Zan and Jayna at Jay Garrick's school for the "gifted."

Earth-16: The Just

On The New 52  Multiverse world of Earth-16, an alternate Miss Martian
is glimpsed briefly in a swimming pool ensemble scene, although she has
no dialogue within it. Earth-16 is a 'legacy'-based alternate Earth,
where the Silver Age generation of metahumans has had children, or have
relinquished active crime-fighting to their former protégés. However,
due to preprogrammed Superman robots, there is little active criminality
left to fight, so metahumans undertake combat games. Whether Miss
Martian is a member of the Teen Titans on this alternate Earth is
unknown at present.


In other media

[Miss Martian in Young Justice.]

Television

-   Miss Martian is a lead character in the Young Justice animated
    series (loosely based on the comic book series), voiced by
    Danica McKellar. Within the show, she is introduced as the niece
    of the Martian Manhunter. Her weakness to fire is due to Mars being
    "pretty cold." M'gann is 48 human chronological years, but only 16
    by Martian biological standards. She states that she has 12
    sisters on Mars, indicating a surviving Martian society. She has
    shown strong telekinetic and telepathic abilities as well as flight,
    camouflage (though not truly invisibility) and shape shifting, but
    she initially had trouble mimicking men (when she tried, they
    appeared as female versions.) However, she was able to mimic Red
    Tornado flawlessly (possibly due to his inorganic nature and
    simplified anatomy.) Her shape-shifting allows her to heal faster
    than a human would. Miss Martian has strength and durability above
    that of a typical human. Like Kid Flash and Superboy, her other
    comic-based abilities (super speed, super senses and laser vision)
    are not indicated, though she cites "density-shifting" as an
    "advanced technique". However, in "Failsafe", Martian Manhunter
    states she is the most powerful telepath he has encountered in terms
    of raw power and potential growth, even in comparison to himself.
    She developed a crush on Superboy since meeting him, blushing when
    he compliments her in "Dropzone" and almost kissing him in "Bereft".
    By the episode "Terrors", they began a romantic relationship, which
    they initially keep secret. In "Targets," she joined the
    cheerleading squad on her and Superboy's first day of school. Miss
    Martian's humanoid form and personality, as well as her catchphrase
    "Hello, Megan!" is based on a character, also named Megan, from an
    old Earth TV show she enjoyed watching on Mars, and she chose
    Connor's name from another character in the show, as revealed in the
    episode "Image". When Garfield Logan requires a blood transfusion to
    save his life, she shifts hers to match, saving him but beginning a
    process which transforms him into Beast Boy. During battle with
    Psimon, he exposes her as a White Martian, but she conceals it from
    her team-mates. Later, she claims to be a Green Martian, and that
    her true form is a female version of Martian Manhunter's
    human appearance. Due to Miss Martian's fear of her team-mates
    reaction to her White Martian form, Bialya leader Queen Bee
    blackmails her, but Miss Martian ultimately reveals her true form to
    the team, to only momentary shock. Superboy revealed that he had
    known Miss Martian's secret since they shared a strong telepathic
    connection in Bialya, and had simply chosen to wait for her to
    tell him. M'gann appears in the second season titled Young Justice:
    Invasion set five years later. She remains with the team, sporting
    a shorter haircut and wearing her stealth costume at all times. She
    is also considerably more serious and experienced. Superboy has
    ended their relationship, but she is now involved with Lagoon Boy.
    Following his mother's death, she has accepted Beast Boy as an
    adopted younger brother. She is now capable of density shifting. Her
    personality is darker than before, aggressively probing the minds of
    her enemies, leaving them catatonic. It is revealed in the episode
    "Depths" that Superboy's disagreement with M'gann's blatant
    disregard for this led to their break-up, with the final straw being
    M'gann's attempt to erase his memory of their argument. M'gann shows
    visible remorse, particularly given Superboy's anger over the
    violation of their deeply personal connection. In the episode
    "Before the Dawn", M'gann confronts Aqualad and telepathically
    attacks him as revenge for his supposed killing of Artemis, but her
    probing reveals that Artemis is alive and working undercover, and
    she breaks off horrified. She subsequently enters a state of mental
    shock, becoming almost non-responsive and requiring prodding from
    her Teammates to use her powers, which results in a swift defeat at
    the hands of Black Beetle, and then refusing to use her Telepathy.
    Afterwards, Black Manta has her captured by Tigress and Deathstroke
    to make her fix Aqualad's mind. After succeeding, Miss Martian,
    Tigress (Artemis) and Kaldur come up with a plan to escape, which is
    compromised by Sportsmaster and Cheshire's assassination attempt on
    Black Manta. In the end, Miss Martian and Sportsmaster make a deal
    and both escape without blowing Kaldur and Tigress' cover.
    Afterwards, she breaks up with Lagoon Boy out of guilt over her
    selfish motives, though he had forgiven her later in "Summit". She
    is put down when she hears Connor is spending time with Wendy Harris
    from their old High School. In "Endgame", she is overjoyed to hear
    that Connor was just helping Wendy out with her relationship with
    another old school friend. Following the death of Wally West, while
    discussing the new relationship between Tim Drake and Cassie, they
    both reconcile, but before they can kiss they are called to the
    briefing room by Aqualad, where they are dispatched for a mission on
    Mars with Beast Boy.
-   Miss Martian makes a guest appearance in the Teen Titans Go!_
    episode "Let's Get Serious" (which is a crossover with Young
    Justice). She accompanies Aqualad and Superboy in taking out the
    H.I.V.E., as the Titans were too silly to do it properly.
-   Miss Martian appears in the web series  Super Hero Girls as a
    student at Super Hero High.

Film

The Young Justice version of Miss Martian, along with Wonder Girl,
Artemis, and Zatanna, makes a cameo appearance as home viewers in
Scooby-Doo! WrestleMania Mystery.

Video Games

-   Miss Martian appears as a playable character in the video game
    Young Justice: Legacy, where Danica McKellar reprises the role.
-   Miss Martian also appears as a playable character in Lego Batman 3:
    Beyond Gotham, voiced by Laura Bailey.

