MISTER AMERICA (JEFFREY GRAVES) is a fictional superhero in the 
Comics Universe, the official third and current character to take up the
Mr. America mantle and a member of the superhero team the Justice
Society of America. Mr. America made his first full appearance as
Jeffrey Graves in Justice Society of America (vol. 3) #4 (May 2007)
and was created by Geoff Johns and Dale Eaglesham.

Jeffrey bears no relation to the previous heroes, Tex and Trey Thompson,
who took the Mr. America mantle. However, Jeffrey was connected to Trey,
as he had formerly worked with him in the FBI. While serving as the
second Mr. America, Trey had been murdered. His murderer was later
revealed to be Vandal Savage. Jeffrey decided to continue the legacy
by becoming the new Mr. America.


Publication history

Jeffrey Graves made his first, non-speaking appearance in the first
issue of the third volume of the Justice Society of America series in
2007. In issue #4, he made his first full appearance and then appeared
again in issue #11 as the superhero, Mr. America. He appeared in three
more issues after this, and then only made occasional appearances.

In 2009, Mr. America began to make more significant appearances in the
series, starting with issue #29. Later in the year, Mr. America appeared
in Justice Society of America 80-Page Giant #1 and in the six-issue
mini-series JSA vs. Kobra.

Later, in 2010, he appeared in Justice Society of America Annual #2
and Blackest Night: JSA #1. He later appeared in issues #45 through
#48 in the second volume of the Justice League of America series, due
to the Brightest Day tie-in JLA/JSA crossover story.

In 2011, Mr. America appeared in issue #36 of the fourth volume of
Outsiders. Currently, Mr. America is continuing to appear in the
Justice Society of America series.


Fictional character biography

Jeffrey Graves was a Special Agent who worked for the Federal Bureau of
Investigation. His former partner, Trey Thompson was currently working
as the superhero Mr. America, who Jeffrey supplied information to about
the crimes that went on so Trey could investigate them alongside the
FBI. Jeffrey was the only one who knew about Trey's secret identity and
he had to pretend to not know Mr. America. However, when Trey's family
was murdered, he revealed his identity to the FBI. After discovering and
brutally interrogating his family's murderer, a villain named Catalyst,
on who had hired him to kill his family, Trey was later murdered.
Trey's murderer was revealed to be Vandal Savage, who was killing all of
the descendants of early superheroes who had their legacies carried
on. Savage was eventually defeated by the Justice Society of America.
Jeffrey then lost his job when the FBI discovered he supplied
information to Trey, as Trey used to be with the FBI until he took
vengeance on a murderer. Jeffrey, while cleaning out his office, took
out Mr. America's costume and put his mask on.

Joining the Justice Society

Later, Jeffrey appeared at a crime scene in the Mr. America costume with
two whips, claiming himself to be the new Mr. America. Soon, while
investigating more murders by himself, Mr. America was attacked and
brutally beaten by Gog. He later stumbled into the Justice Society of
America Brownstone, barely breathing. He lived and it was revealed
that Gog was murdering metahuman criminals who claimed to be gods.
Mr. America was then submitted as a member of the Justice Society.
During this moment, Gog appeared and took on the JSA. Mr. America
was not seen throughout the rest of the story arc, however Gog was
absorbed by the one true Gog, a god who rose on earth. The JSA
eventually defeated him. [Mr. America is betrayed by his partner.] Mr.
America later recruited his new sidekick, All-American Kid. On the day
that Mr. America brought All-American Kid to the Brownstone, most of the
team left for battle, leaving All-American Kid, Mr. Terrific and King
Chimera as the only ones left at the Brownstone. All-American Kid then
went to Mr. Terrific and stabbed him in the back. When the JSA came
back and found Mr. Terrific injured, they interrogated All-American Kid.
After watching the security tape of All-American Kid resisting, it was
concluded that he was mind controlled. However, when the villains
that the JSA previously fought attacked the Brownstone, Mr. America was
knocked out by his sidekick. Throughout the rest of the arc, it was
revealed that All-American Kid was actually a sociopath named Jeremy
Karne. He stabbed Mr. Terrific so he wouldn't figure out who he was and
he wanted to infiltrate the Justice Society to kidnap Obsidian.

After Jeremy's infiltration, the Justice Society decided to split into
two teams. Mr. America stayed on the regular JSA team. Mr. Terrific, who
was alive and was recovering from his injuries, gave Mr. America his
whip, saying he made some improvements on it. When Mr. America, along
with Lightning at his side, tried his whip out by striking it on some
cinder blocks, they exploded, with the impact knocking both of them a
few feet back. At the same time, Mr. America soon helped his team
defeat Mordru and then later The Fourth Reich, a Nazi team associated
with Jeremy.

Blackest Night

Around the same time during the fight with Mordru, Mr. America helped
his team in the fight against the Black Lanterns in New York City. He
expressed willpower as he fought against a Black Lantern. Mr. America
growled to it, "Come on, you monster." He was later seen defeated and
being held by Flash, who sped him to safety at S.T.A.R. Labs.

Brightest Day

Quickly after defeating The Fourth Reich, Mr. America was then present
when Alan Scott had been taken over by the Starheart. The JSA then
teamed up with the Justice League and the newly resurrected Jade to stop
Alan and other metahumans who had also been corrupted by the Starheart.
After a series of events, Batman figured out that Jade was able to drain
the Starheart's power by using her powers against Alan enough where he
could take back control of the Starheart. This attempt led to success,
which gave Alan control back over his powers and setting every other
metahuman back to normal.


Characterization

Although not being explored into much more development after his debut,
Mr. America has been shown to be a polite, kind-hearted man. He proves
to be just as strong and valiant as his teammates when it comes to being
a superhero. While having a nice personality, he is serious and vicious
when dealing with his enemies. Before joining the Justice Society, he
stated he helped the FBI track down a missing girl whose kidnapper
viciously brutalized her. Mr. America had made the kidnapper fall down
the stairs to the cellar where the kidnapper kept the girl and then fall
"back up" the stairs. When it was said that the kidnapper might never
walk again, Mr. America said, "Next time I'll make sure."

Mr. America is close friends with his teammate Lightning, as the two
often talk and pair up together during battles. When Lightning once
called him Mr. Graves, he told her to call him Jeff, as he did not want
to feel elderly and reminded her that he was closer in age with her than
he is to the veterans of the team. Mr. America is also distasteful
against the idea of the military using children, saying it's "ridiculous
to let children go into battle."

Depiction

Unlike Tex and Trey, both who had black hair and mustaches, Jeffrey has
brown hair and no mustache. Jeffrey's costume colors are red, white and
blue, which symbolizes the American flag. He wears a blue mask, a white
shirt with blue cuffs, a red cape with a blue stripe at the bottom of it
with white stars running across it, a blue collar with one gold star on
each side, blue pants, blue boot shin guards and a brown belt. His
costume is almost identical to the one Tex and Trey wore, except with a
few minor changes. The original Mr. America costume consisted of a red
belt, white collar, one blue star on each side of the collar, blue
gloves, no cuffs on the shirt, and white shin guards. Jeffrey's costume
has a brown belt, blue collar, one gold star on each side of the collar,
no gloves, blue cuffs on his shirt, and blue shin guards.


Powers and abilities

[Mr. America makes a crate explode with his whips.] Mr. America is one
of the few people on his team who doesn't have any superhuman powers or
abilities. He is a skilled detective and is skilled at hand-to-hand
combat as he is a former Special Agent and he had worked for the FBI. He
is also in maximum physical condition for a regular person. While Tex
and Trey had only used one whip as their weapon, Jeffrey uses two whips.
He used two regular whips as his weapons until Mr. Terrific upgraded
them, making them explode whatever they strike. It was never revealed
how Mr. Terrific managed to do this, as all he said to Jeffrey was that
he had "tinkered" with the whip and had "made a few improvements" on
it.

Mr. Terrific also never clearly stated why he made the improvements to
the whips. However, it can be assumed that he did it to simply make the
whips more effective during battles and help Mr. America become more of
a threat to super powered enemies, as he is a non-powered human and his
two regular whips had proved to be ineffective many times, thus causing
him many injuries. At the time when he was beaten by Gog and still using
his regular whips, Mr. America said, "I tried to stop him. Guess what?
Power staff beats whip."

