THE MONOLITH is a  comic book series whose title character is
a superheroic golem. The Monolith is guided in his actions by Alice
Cohen, a recovering drug addict whose grandmother was one of those
responsible for the Monolith's creation in the 1930s.

In 2013, the publication rights reverted to the creators, Jimmy
Palmiotti and Justin Gray of PaperFilms Inc.


Publication history

The Monolith was published for a total of 12 issues before being
cancelled due to poor sales. The issues were cover dated April 2004 to
March 2005, and were all written by Justin Gray and Jimmy Palmiotti.
Phil Winslade was the penciller/inker for most issues with Tomm Coker
and Peter Snejberg acting as replacements for a total of four issues.

The stories take place in the present (of the publication dates), with
flashbacks to the events surrounding The Monolith during the Depression
Era.


Characters

2004

-   ALICE COHEN: The granddaughter of the first Alice. She finds herself
    struggling with drug addiction while trying to control the Monolith.
-   TILT SHIMURA: Alice's best friend and roommate. An ex-prostitute,
    she is the less mature of the two. Nevertheless, she finds herself
    also responsible for the Monolith
-   THE MONOLITH: A golem created in the 1930s. The creature viciously
    hunts those who prey on the innocent. He is psychically linked to
    Brooklyn and able to sense where crimes will happen. It has a very
    childlike personality which makes it both innocent and dangerous.

1930s

-   ALICE: The grandmother to Alice Cohen. The Depression Era flashbacks
    are told from her point of view.
-   RABBI RAVA: The individual who was in charge of the magic knowledge
    that was used to create The Monolith.
-   HAN: Chinese carpenter who participates in creating the Monolith.
-   PETER: Bootlegger and love of Alice whose blood was used to help
    create the Monolith.


Plot synopsis (issues #1-12)

Issues #1-3: Introduction

In the present the reader is introduced to Alice Cohen as she receives
her inheritance from her recently deceased grandmother. This inheritance
consists of a lone house in an area of Brooklyn where all the other
buildings have been torn down. One of the first things that Alice
discovers is a walled off section in the basement from which a voice
calls to her to read stories. Alice's first choice for this is her
grandmother's diary.

Alice owes money to Prince, a violent drug dealer who is determined to
find and make an example out of her. Using violent methods Prince finds
out Alice's location from Tilt (a friend of Alice's) who races to warn
Alice that Prince is coming for her. Not long after Tilt's warning
Prince arrives and breaks into the house. In desperation Alice and Tilt
break down the brick wall in the basement and release The Monolith. The
resulting fight is short.

The depression era portions of these issues show how and why The
Monolith was created. Alice's grandmother (also named Alice) is a
factory worker who rooms with others trying to get through those tough
times. Her closest friends are Rabbi Rava, Han, and Peter.

The events leading to The Monolith's creation begin when the textile
factory that Alice works in is firebombed by the Mafia. Peter, who also
works on the side in organized crime, confronts those responsible and is
murdered. Deciding that Peter's death should not be in vain Alice and
her friends create a golem using knowledge Rabbi Rava has learned.
Peter's blood is one of the ingredients used in its creation and as a
result his personality is the basis for The Monolith's. They send their
creation to hunt down those responsible for Peter's murder.

After a time The Monolith begins to hunt down and kill all criminals
with no distinction made for the degree of their crime. Seeing their
creation is out of control Alice, Rabbi Rava, and Han seal The Monolith
in a bootlegger tunnel located beneath the house they live in.

Issues #4-5: Battle with a demon

In the present the lawyer overseeing Alice's grandmother's will gets her
a job working for NYCAT (the New York Citizen's Assistance Team). NYCAT
is a non-profit organization that helps lower income people in the New
York area.

While Alice is dealing with her first day at this job, The Monolith
leaves the house to seek out a demon that lies hidden beneath a church.
This demon is named L'ono Nero and has remained in its place of hiding
for decades. The Zavatinni family has been cursed all that time to guard
and protect it. Giovanni Zavatinni (the current guardian) is seeking to
rid himself of this curse and aides The Monolith in the fight against
L'ono Nero.

In 1935 the Rocco Family is seeking revenge for the deaths of their
fellow mobsters at the hands of The Monolith. Having learned the truth
of its creation they seek out The Monolith's creators. Rabbi Rava is
kidnapped, beaten and dropped off at the church that hides L'ono Nero.
The mobsters tell the current guardian to give the Rabbi to L'ono Nero.
The guardian doesn't do this but the Rabbi dies of his injuries anyway.
Their brief conversation reveals that the Rocco Family has already
killed Han. Alice is also taken to the church but is set free by the
guardian

Issues #6-8: Batman

An arsonist calling himself the Incinerator begins to target the
Arab-American and Muslim American community of New York. His first
target is a home for recent Arab Muslim immigrants in Bedford-Stuyvesant
that was built through the efforts of NYCAT and the Wayne Foundation.
This event gets the attention of Batman and he begins to investigate.

Both Batman and The Monolith track the Incinerator to his next target.
In the resulting fight Batman is injured and The Monolith brings him
back to the house. There Alice tells Batman the Monolith's origin.
Batman's reaction is to tell Alice and The Monolith not to get in his
way.

After a time Batman comes to the realization that he needs The Monolith
to find The Incinerator. The two of them locate The Incinerator's next
bomb in the New York Mosque where he has tied an Imam to the bomb to
make it harder to disarm. After dealing with the bomb both The Monolith
and Batman track The Incinerator to The World Trade Center site. The
Incinerator is planning to blow himself up but is stopped and arrested
for his crimes.

Issues #9-10: Iron golem

In 1934 mobsters kidnap Alice and Rabbi Rava. The Rabbi is forced to
create a golem made of iron for these mobsters after they threaten to
kill Alice if he doesn't. Rabbi Rava performs the ceremony but purposely
misspeaks the words. The golem awakens anyway, but is nearly mindless
and kills the mobsters.

It is at this point that The Monolith arrives to rescue his creators.
During the fight the iron golem is covered in molten steel and frozen
when the steel hardens. It is then thrown into the East River by The
Monolith. In 1987 the iron golem is found by scuba diving salvagers and
sold.

In the present Tilt has just been diagnosed as being HIV positive. Alice
takes her to a dance club to take her mind off of this. In the middle of
this club is a statue that is actually the iron golem still encased in
its steel prison. When a gang fight starts in the club, blood is spilled
on the iron golem, causing it to awaken. During its resulting rampage
The Monolith arrives to protect Alice and Tilt.

Issues #11-12: The end

Alice gets a call from a woman NYCAT helped into a woman's shelter
saying that the shelter isn't a shelter. This call leads Alice to a
modern slave ring headed by a group of corrupt police officers. The
leader of this group turns out to be Orlando Ruiz (a man Alice has just
started to date) who captures Alice. Ruiz injects Alice with heroin to
keep her compliant and puts her on the slave block.

Knowing that Alice is in trouble Tilt and the Monolith track her to the
warehouse where she and the other women are being held. They rescue
Alice and bring her back to the house to recover.

The final pages of issue twelve show Alice, Tilt and the Monolith
celebrating Christmas. They engage in a snowball fight and then go back
inside the house. The series ends with The Monolith remembering who he
was in life and saying "My name was Peter."


Other appearances

While The Monolith was still being published, Gray and Palmiotti were
also writing Hawkman. In issue #33 of that series, the Monolith and
Alice guest starred in a story featuring the Monolith joining with
Hawkman and Hawkgirl to defeat Solomon Grundy.

In 2006 in Crisis Aftermath: The Battle for Blüdhaven, one of the One
Year Later titles, the Monolith is shown protecting the innocent in
refugee camps that spring up around Blüdhaven after that city's
destruction in Infinite Crisis.

