MOON MAIDEN is a  superhero who first appeared in JLA Giant
Size Special #3 (October 2000). Dan Curtis Johnson and Dale Eaglesham
created her. This has been her only appearance to date. It was a retcon
story, written as if she had been a superhero and member of the Justice
League for years.


Fictional character biography

HUGH KLEIN was an American Astronaut on Apollo XXV, the last manned Moon
mission. While on the Moon, Hugh discovered an ancient structure,
thereafter referred to as the 'Lunar Villa'. Inside, Hugh finds an
infant girl in a cradle, and is then confronted by a ghostly consortium
identified as THE HUNDRED. Caelius, speaker for the Hundred, explained
how they were a group of scholars and philosophers devoted to peace who
fled Rome during the time of the emperors. Using alchemical processes,
they created the Lunar Villa and attempted to create a champion of their
peaceful ideas on Earth. Unfortunately, they accidentally created the
villain known as Valkus, THE CENTURION instead. To atone for this
mistake, and to perpetuate their beliefs, they created a child they
called the PRAEMONSTRA SUPRA, meaning "She Who Will Point the Way'. Hugh
returned to Earth with the infant child, and he and his new wife, Jenny,
were allowed to adopt and raise the infant, whom they named Laura.

Although Laura exhibited no outward super powers, she was always a
brilliant and athletic child. When Laura turned 16, her powers of
gravity control manifested. Hugh and Jenny explained Laura's origins to
her, and she and Hugh travelled to the Lunar Villa, where the ghostly
remains of the Hundred explained her origin and their purpose to them.
At this point Laura embarked on her career as Laurel, the Moon Maiden.

She soon made many friends among the superhero community, was an early
member of the Justice League, and shared at least one adventure with the
Teen Titans. Throughout this time, her most frequent opponent was the
Centurion. During one of the Centurion's most grandiose schemes, he used
a device called an ERASURE WEAPON, which was capable of erasing a being
from history. After erasing several notable heroes from existence, Moon
Maiden, along with the remaining members of the Justice League, the Teen
Titans, and Infinity Inc. took the battle to the Centurion, in what was
known as 'The Century War'. In an act of self-sacrifice, Moon Maiden,
took herself and the Centurion high into the sky, and there destroyed
his weapon, causing a great explosion, and removing the two of them from
history. Only Hugh Klein was able to recall his daughter and the events
that had occurred.

Moon Maiden eventually returned, wrapped up in the schemes of the also
returned Centurion. Hugh was able to rekindle the memories of Laura's
friends in the Justice League, and together they were able to free her
from the Centurion and she was able to bring a close to his scheme.
Afterwards, she felt somewhat lost, as most of the world still was
unaware of her, but she had Hugh and her friends to help her rediscover
this Earth which was now new to her.

Moon Maiden's only other appearances to date have been an appearance on
the cover of JLA/Avengers #3 and a cameo (from the waist down) in the
next issue, #4.


Powers and abilities

Moon Maiden is able to manipulate the alchemical processes of the
Hundred's Lunar Villa, and as such is able to manipulate the Moon's
gravitational pull. The effects range from moving small items around, to
flight, to creating havoc with the Earth's tides and earthquakes. She
can also induce an effect called 'Lunar Madness' in others, which can
manifest as anything from traumatic flashbacks to being driven
permanently insane.

