MYG of the planet Lythyl is a fictional character, a superhero in the
future of the  universe. He is a master of every form of
martial arts to have been developed by the 30th and 31st centuries.
Following in the footsteps of Val Armorr, he became the second
individual to assume the identity KARATE KID, and briefly served as a
member of the Legion of Super-Heroes.


Fictional character biography

In accordance with the terms of Val Armorr's will, Timber Wolf and
Sensei Toshiaki travel to the planet Lythyl. They meet with Lythyl's
ruling council – the Three Judges – which includes a teenager named Myg.
After engaging the pair in a test of hand-to-hand combat skills, Myg is
knocked unconscious by Timber Wolf and Sensei. They smuggle the teen off
Lythyl, so that the planet will not corrupt him as it corrupted Val
Armorr's father Kirau Nezumi (the Black Dragon). Myg is brought to
Val Armorr’s resting place on Shanghalla.  Humbled by the level of
respect given to Val even in death, Myg vows to follow in his path. He
adopts the Karate Kid name and enrolls in the Legion Academy.
Subsequently, he enjoins a brief stint in the Legion of Substitute
Heroes.

Post-Infinite Crisis

At some point, Myg joins the Legion of Super-Heroes. He later
becomes disillusioned by the discord between several of the
Legionnaires, particularly Shrinking Violet and Chameleon Girl. Years
later, he becomes Lythyl's representative to the United Planets Council,
and soon advocates the disbanding of the Legion. Ultimately, he is
murdered by Radiation Roy during an attack on the U.P. Council by the
so-called "Justice League of Earth".


Powers and abilities

Like his predecessor Val Armorr, Myg has achieved mastery of every
documented form of martial arts to have been developed by the 30th and
31st centuries. He possesses the ability to sense the weakest spot in an
object and his skill in hand-to-hand combat is seemingly superhuman,
allowing him to simulate super-strength blows. He can severely damage
extremely hard and strong materials — metals, stone, etc. — with a
single blow.

