NATASHA IRONS is a fictional character, a superhero in the  Universe
and the niece of John Henry Irons (the superhero Steel). Natasha first
appears in Steel (vol. 2) #1 (February 1994). She becomes the fifth
superhero to use the name STEEL when her uncle is injured. In the 2006
limited series 52, Natasha gains superpowers and uses the codename
STARLIGHT. When her powers change, allowing her to become a being of
living mist she assumes the codename VAPORLOCK.


Fictional character biography

Natasha Irons is the daughter of John Henry's brother, Clay, and Clay's
wife Blondel. She is introduced in the first issue of Steel's solo
series, where she is initially portrayed as being 13. Like the rest of
her family, she knew about Steel's secret identity all along.
Contrasting sharply with her brother Jemahl, Natasha is shown to be very
level headed and practical. By issue #14, she is shown to be working
(presumably as an intern) for a U.S. Senator. She appears to have aged
forward to be about 16 somehow. Nat is a supporting character throughout
Louise Simonson's run on the series. She is kidnapped by Hazard and
Steel has to rescue her. She also uses the drug Tar to help fight at her
uncle's side briefly. She is later kidnapped by the villain Plasmus and
apparently kills him by shattering once Steel froze the villain
(although he later turns up alive). Natasha was devastated at the loss
of her beloved great-grandmother, Bess Irons, but is the only one of her
family who stays with Steel when he moves to Jersey City (see the Steel
entry for more details of the Irons family).

With Christopher Priest at the helm of Steel starting with #34, Nat
was radically altered. She was transformed into a more stereotypical
modern teenager with a flippant attitude. All trace of her previous work
for a U.S. Senator was never referenced. During this time she also meets
and befriends a teen named Paul, whom she dubs "Boris". Her father also
makes a return as the villain Crash. When an assassin named Skorpio
poisons Nat, Crash has to turn himself in so that he can give a blood
transfusion and save his daughter. He is never seen nor heard from
again.

Nat later goes with Steel to Metropolis when he opens up Steelworks
there. She becomes his assistant, even reprogramming Superman's
Kryptonian robot Kelex to speak hip hop slang. For a time she is dating
a local boy, Boris.

The new Steel

[Natasha as Steel. Art by Pascual Ferry.] When the Entropy Aegis of
Darkseid traps John, Natasha designs a suit of armor that uses the
Aegis' power, teleports to Apokolips, and fights Doomsday with the help
of Superman, Superboy, Supergirl, and the pre-Crisis Supergirl.

John is too injured to continue operating as Steel. Having intended to
pass his legacy as Steel on to Natasha, John made a new, more advanced
suit of armor for her to use.

When Natasha hears that Superman has been injured by a ghostly ninja,
she dons her armor and becomes the new Steel. She teams up with Cir-El
and Girl 13 to stop the ninja. During the adventure, she uses her hammer
to fire an electric pulse into Superman's heart to start it again.

As part of the Superman/Batman "Public Enemies" arc, false news of
Batman and Superman's capture by the forces of President Lex Luthor is
leaked to draw out their various associates into attacking the White
House. Cir-El, Natasha, Krypto, Superboy and the Batman Family do
exactly that. Natasha is neutralized early in the incident, staying back
to try to rescue Cir-El and Superboy from a crushing deathtrap. Instead,
Batman saves them.

Natasha is briefly seen in a cameo role during the events of "Infinite
Crisis".

Starlight

In 52, Natasha has a violent falling out with her uncle John, over
John's disgust over what he feels is the self-absorbed narcissism of the
 Universe's superhero community. When Natasha discovers that the Teen
Titans (whose roster was devastated by the events of Infinite Crisis)
are holding an open call for new members, John forbids Natasha from
going and instead insists she continue the clearing out debris from the
battle of Metropolis. When Natasha refuses, John dismantles her armor,
and she is left powerless. John also makes it clear that she will have
to build her own armor if she wants to be a super-hero. [Natasha as
Starlight.] Soon, Natasha attempts to rebuild her armor, with little
success. When she learns that John had his DNA rewritten by the
exo-gene, Natasha wrongly assumes John chose to have his DNA altered and
snaps.

After a fierce argument with her uncle, Natasha applies for Luthor's
"Everyman Project" and becomes one of the first official subjects.
When John, looking for Natasha, threatens to kill Luthor at a Lexcorp
party, Natasha appears, along with a team of super-powered people in
Luthor's employ, and beats him severely. From that point, she is
estranged from her uncle, who makes numerous attempts to contact her,
which she rebuffs. Gifted with new skills, Natasha is given the codename
STARLIGHT. While in battle, she witnesses her friend Eliza Harmon
(a.k.a. Trajectory) killed by a new Blockbuster. Natasha is finally
contacted by John on New Year's Eve, who forces her to rethink
everything that Luthor has told her. After the "Rain of the Supermen,"
in which Lex Luthor deactivates the powers of each Everyman hero outside
of Infinity, Inc. (causing many to plummet from the sky; this forms the
basis of the title pun on "The Reign of the Supermen" storyline),
Natasha realizes that her uncle was right all along. She then begins
working as a double agent within Luthor's organization. However, she is
found out and beaten by Luthor, who has acquired superpowers.

Steel and the Teen Titans launch an attack on LexCorp and manage to
rescue Natasha. However, Lex stripped her of her Starlight powers.
Later, she is seen escorting Luthor into custody, wearing a new set of
armour made for her by her uncle. The duo restore Steelworks, and
Natasha is later seen, during the World War III assembling a nanotech
payload missile to fire over Black Adam, although the missile is stolen
by Booster Gold. Natasha survives the battle, and resumes working at
Steelworks.

Vaporlock

The new Infinity, Inc. series reveals that the Everyman Project has had
a lingering effect on its subjects. Natasha now has the ability to
dissolve into a cloud of gas, although she has difficulty controlling
it. Her uncle suggests she adopt the codename "Vaporlock." In
the final issue, of the series all the Infinity Inc members are
prisoners in the Dark Side Club. By the end of the Terror Titans
miniseries they are released thanks to Miss Martian.

"Jenny" Blake and Project 7734

After being released from the Dark Side Club, the members of Infinity
Inc. take new names and infiltrate a government project named Project
7734. The goal of the project is simple: the death of Superman. Towards
that end, the government project has placed satellites in space that
fire magic lasers, plucked the powerful Atlas from the time stream,
release Metallo, and brainwashed people.

Natasha is not sure who to trust as part of Project: Breach (the
brainwashing of Captain Atom). She visits Earth to tell Jimmy Olsen, who
has been looking into Project 7734, about Captain Atom and leaves just
before Jimmy is found and shot by Codename: Assassin. In the Captain
Atom back-up story in Action Comics, Captain Atom remembers who he
is, revealing his real name and rank along with the "Codename: Captain
Atom". Joining others of Project 7734 (such as Codename: Superwoman and
Codename: Metallo), Natasha is part of the team that takes down Captain
Atom to brainwash him before they are attacked by the natives of the
magical world where Project 7734 is located. The natives want her to
help them with Captain Atom.

Following this, Natasha is shown helping Steel rescue civilians during
the Reign of Doomsday event. Doomsday attacks Natasha in order to draw
Steel's attention, and though she escapes unscathed, Steel is ultimately
beaten into submission and captured.


Powers and abilities

[Natasha gains superpowers.]

Exo-gene

-   As Starlight, Natasha is able to fly, exert superhuman strength, and
    is more durable. Her fists also emit large flashes of light. She
    also can focus her light into forcefields, and trap her opponents
    within them, such as when she encased Blockbuster in a light energy
    field to prevent him from moving.
-   As Vaporlock, Natasha has the ability to transform her body into a
    gaseous substance.

Armor

-   Natasha's "Steel" armor boosts her strength to super-human levels,
    and rockets in her boots allow her to fly. The armor can grow to
    heights of up to 60 feet, and it is equipped with energy weapons and
    projectile weaponry.
-   Natasha's main weapon is her hammer, which has inertial dampeners
    that cause the hammer's force to increase exponentially (the farther
    it is thrown, the harder it hits). The hammer can fire
    electromagnetic pulses and generate powerful electric and magnetic
    fields at Natasha's command. When the hammer is placed on the
    ground, it connects with the Earth's magnetic field and cannot be
    moved except by Natasha or someone with similar DNA, such as her
    uncle John Henry Irons.
-   The original Entropy Aegis fueled-armor endowed her with enhanced
    strength and teleportation, and enabled her to fire blasts of
    strange purple energy from her hands.


Other versions

Kingdom Come

Natasha (as Steel) is a background character in the limited series
Kingdom Come, wearing a giant version of her later armor with the
head-tails.

Flashpoint

In the alternate timeline of the Flashpoint event, Natasha Irons is a
member of the Brazilian Army who battles against the Nazis in Brazil.
She encounters Traci 13 after she accidentally teleports herself to
Brazil, with Natasha initially thinking she was sent by Cyborg. Natasha
asks Traci to join her team, but Traci is forced to leave in order to
help save the world. Soon after this, Traci teleports away and wishes
Natasha good luck with her war, which Natasha does to her also.

Ame-Comi

Natasha appears as the Steel of the Ame-Comi universe with an
Anime-styled redesign. She is first approached by Carrie Kelly after
Batgirl is kidnapped by Duela Dent, and agrees to help after learning
how dire the situation it. It is mentioned in passing that Natasha
possesses superhuman intelligence in this continuity, as she is able to
process information twelve times faster than an average human. After
recruiting the Flash, the three young heroines set out to face down
Dent.

Superman Family Adventures

A teenage version of Natasha appears in the series as a friend and
classmate of Jimmy Olsen.

Multiversity

An adult version of Natasha appears as a member of the Justice League of
Earth-16, now using the name Steel.


In other media

Television

-   Natasha appears in the episode of Superman: The Animated Series
    entitled "Heavy Metal" voiced by Cree Summer. She is still depicted
    as the niece of John Henry and was proud when she learned he quit
    working for Lex Luthor as well as surprised of her uncle's
    relationship with Superman.
-   Natasha makes a cameo appearance in the Justice League
    episode "Hereafter".

Miscellaneous

-   Natasha appears in Justice League Unlimited #35, in which she
    wears a costume similar to her Steel costume in the mainstream
    comics.

