THE NEWSBOY LEGION are fictional characters, a kid gang in the 
Universe. Created by Joe Simon and Jack Kirby, they appeared in their
own self-titled feature which ran from Star-Spangled Comics #7 (April
1942) to Star-Spangled Comics #64 (January 1947).


Pre-Crisis version

A group of orphans, living on the streets of Suicide Slum, they were so
named because they sold newspapers to make a living. They were also
frequently in trouble with the law, although local policeman Jim Harper
had a soft spot for them. In their first appearance, Harper, shortly
after becoming the Guardian, also becomes the Newsboys' legal guardian.
A recurring theme in their stories was that the boys suspected Harper
was the Guardian but were unsure.

The Newsboy Legion consisted of TOMMY TOMPKINS (the leader); BIG WORDS
(the team genius); GABBY (an excitable kid who never stopped talking);
and SCRAPPER (the tough guy).

The Newsboy Legion were reintroduced in Superman's Pal Jimmy Olsen
#133 (October 1970) as part of Jack Kirby's Fourth World story arc. The
Legion in that story were the sons of the originals, who were now
working at a government genetics project. A new addition to the team was
WALTER "FLIPPER DIPPER" (OR "FLIPPA DIPPA") JOHNSON JR., an
African-American boy. He was obsessed with and very capable of
underwater maneuvers. He is also the son of another member of the
PROJECT. His nickname was later shortened to "Flip".

During their first mission, the villainous Morgan Edge develops the WHIZ
WAGON for the unsuspecting boys. He attempts to use it and them (and by
extension, Jimmy Olsen) to kill the HAIRIES, an underground,
technologically advanced society. The Hairies were literally neighbors
of the Project and both were near the EVIL FACTORY, which strove to
destroy the others. Assisting the Legion in fighting the Factory was a
clone of Scrapper called 'Scrapper Trooper', who was designed for
military support of the Project. 

The boys would become affected by the Project in other ways; such as
befriending an experiment from the 'Evil Factory'. They called this
large, pink, humanoid entity 'Angry Charlie'. He was the only survivor
from the Factory. The police authorities from Scotland, where the
Factory had been hiding, allowed the Legion to maintain custody of the
entity.


Post-Crisis version

[Members of the Newsboy Legion as drawn in Superman - Funeral for a
Friend]

Post-Crisis, the Newsboy Legion's 1940s history was unchanged, as was
their later involvement with the DNA Project (now called Project
Cadmus). Instead of having identical sons, however, the new Newsboy
Legion were now said to be clones, created by the same technology that
recreated the Guardian, as part of an Apokolips plot that went wrong.
Like the Guardian clone, they shared their "fathers'" memories, at least
up to their current age, meaning that they were sometimes unfamiliar
with the modern world (the new Flip's memories dated from the fifties,
rather than the forties). They first appeared in this form in Superman
Annual #2 (1988), written by Roger Stern, and were extensively featured
in Karl Kesel's run on Adventures of Superman, including breaking
Kon-El out of Cadmus. The clones were always getting into trouble, such
as when they hid the existence of a large monster that ate furniture.

The post-Crisis Newsboys were also given real names: Big Words was
ANTHONY RODRIGUEZ; Gabby was JOHNNY GABRIELLI and Scrapper was PATRICK
MACGUIRE. They were briefly joined by the Guardian's niece "FAMOUS"
BOBBY HARPER, but she subsequently went to stay with another relative.

The Legion rebel against Cadmus for the first time when they the adults
have stolen Superman's body. They join with an infiltration team
composed of Lois Lane and several super-powered 'Underworlders', a
Metropolis faction devoted to Superman. The group fails to regain
Superman's body.

The incident with Harper involved the Legion taking down an operation
run by Granny Goodness; an orphanage that was a secret kidnapping ring
for the dark realm of Apokolips.

Both versions of the Legion would deal with adversaries such as the
insane scientist Dabney Donovan and lackeys of Darkseid. The Cadmus
project entire would deal with attacks and manipulation from Lex
Luthor's forces.

In Superboy #56, significant changes in Project Cadmus meant the
Newsboys, original and clones, left the Project. It was briefly
suggested that the clones were investigating what was really behind
these changes, but this was not followed up on.

The Newsboy clones rescued Jimmy from the sewers beneath the project in
Countdown #29 (Oct 10 2007), following his breakout from Cadmus. They
allowed Jimmy to stay in the "Legion Clubhouse" (a boarded-up
storefront) while he tried to resolve his situation, but he was
kidnapped by the second Forager (Countdown #28, Oct 17 2007). Their
"fathers" were not mentioned.

The group appears in issue one of Death of the New Gods (Dec 2007).
Using the Whiz Wagon's computers, they assist Jimmy in gaining
photographic evidence of the death of the Black Racer.

In Superman's Pal Jimmy Olsen (one-shot, Dec 2008), the original
Newsboy Legion members were killed by Codename: Assassin. The fate of
the clones remains unknown. This was part of a long-reaching conspiracy
to kill all Kryptonian beings of power, of which there were many at the
time. The man in charge of this plot was United States General Sam
Lane.


Seven Soldiers version

In Grant Morrison's new take on the Guardian in Seven Soldiers: The
Guardian, the Manhattan Guardian newspaper has a citywide network of
volunteer reporters called the "Newsboy Army".

Later in that same series it was revealed that a group called the
Newsboy Army was active during the forties in an area of New York called
Nowhere Street. This group consisted of CAPTAIN 7 (an African-American
boy in a football uniform), ALI KA-ZOOM (a young stage magician),
VINCENZO 'KID SCARFACE' BALDI (an Italian boy in an impeccable suit)
CHOP SUZI (an Asian girl, the team's mechanic), EDWARD 'BABY BRAIN'
STARGARD (an infant prodigy), LITTLE MISS HOLLYWOOD (an impressionist,
the daughter of Irish immigrants) and MILLIONS (the world's richest
dog). In their final mission as a team, they are cursed by the Terrible
Time Tailor to be given horrible fates to prevent them from stopping his
plans for the Harrowing.

Millions "dies" shortly thereafter. It is widely assumed that Cap
impregnates Suzi, as his designation after the encounter with the
Terrible Time Tailor is "child molester". However, the crossword puzzle
included in Seven Soldiers #1 implies that Suzi may have given birth
to twins, fathered by Baby Brain - despite obvious physical obstacles.
Cap is subsequently killed by the others. Hollywood becomes an alcoholic
'super-impressionist'. Ali Ka-Zoom masters genuine magic, goes mad, and
dies, and Kid Scarface became Vincenzo the Undying Don, the leader of
the L.A. underworld and is killed by the Sheeda. Baby Brain survives to
found the Manhattan Guardian newspaper. Ali Ka-Zoom has shown up alive
in 52. In Seven Soldiers #1, it is revealed that Kid Scarface/Don
Vincenzo actually bathed Millions in the Cauldron of Rebirth, and
Millions inherited all of Vincenzo's property after his death, becoming
the "Dogfather."

The name "Newsboys of Nowhere Street" suggests both the Newsboy Legion
and Kirby's later kid gang, the Dingbats of Danger Street.


Doc Savage

Big Words' favorite expression of surprise is "I'll be
superamalgamated!" This phrase was originally used by the similarly
polysyllabic William Harper Littlejohn in Doc Savage.


Collection

 published the first of 2 hardback collections:

-   The Newsboy Legion v1, 2010, ISBN 1-4012-2593-4 (reprints Star
    Spangled Comics #7-32).


Other versions

In 'Elseworld's Finest', the Legion was a small sub-group of Newsboys
who counted a very young Jimmy Olsen among their number. 


In other media

Television

-   In Justice League Unlimited episode "Patriot Act," the Newsboy
    Legion made an unnamed cameo as a group of young kids that help
    civilians to safety. At the end of the episode, the Newsboy Legion
    is part of the group that ends up saving the Justice League from
    General Wade Eiling by convincing him to back down.

