NIGHT GIRL (LYDDA JATH) is a fictional character in the 30th century of
the  Universe. She is a member of the Legion of Substitute Heroes, and
of the most recent incarnation of the Legion of Super-Heroes. She first
appeared in Adventure Comics #306 (March 1963).


Fictional character biography

Pre-Crisis

Night Girl is a native of the planet Kathoon, a world which is in
perpetual darkness, heated by an internal power source. Lydda has super
strength, given to her by her scientist father, but only at night or in
deep shadow. Her powers were negated by the presence of ultra-violet
energy.

In pre-Zero Hour continuity, she unsuccessfully tried out for the Legion
of Super-Heroes who rejected her on the basis that a power that only
worked in darkness was impractical. After meeting fellow Legion reject
Polar Boy, she became one of the founding members of the Legion of
Substitute Heroes. While having powers with such a drastic limitation
reduced her effectiveness as a superhero, she became quite skilled at
martial arts. She had a crush on Cosmic Boy, which was her motivation
for leaving Kathoon and trying out for the Legion in the first place.
She alone among the Subs avoided the bumbling comedic stigma which
plagued her teammates. During the Five Year Gap tales, she and Rokk
married and eventually had a son Pol (named for Cosmic Boy's fallen
brother, Legionnaire Magnetic Kid) and resettled back on her homeworld
as her husband reformed the Legion. In the stories of the Adult Legion,
Night Girl (now Night Woman) and Cosmic Man are married and have a
child.

Post-Zero Hour

In post-Zero Hour continuity Night Girl made two very brief appearances,
first in Legionnaires #43 as she was rejected at a try-out once again
and joined the Legion of Substitute Heroes once more. In a nod to the
previous continuity she noted that, had she been aware Cosmic Boy was on
a secret mission, she might not have even made the attempt.

She was seen in one panel in Legionnaires #49 as she and Polar Boy
talked about how the Substitute Legion had a long way to go until they
were ready to take on a mission.

Threeboot

Night Girl appeared trying out for Legion membership by fighting Ultra
Boy. She was later made a member of the Legion Reserves.

Post-Infinite Crisis

The events of the Infinite Crisis miniseries have apparently restored
a close analogue of the Pre-Crisis on Infinite Earths Legion of
Super-Heroes to continuity, as seen in "The Lightning Saga" story arc in
Justice League of America and Justice Society of America, and in the
"Superman and the Legion of Super-Heroes" story arc in Action Comics.
Night Girl is included in their number (although she was never a member
of the Pre-Crisis Legion). Her relationship with Rokk Krinn never
fully blossomed into a full romance, as Cosmic Boy states that he chose
to sacrifice his chance at a personal life to ensure that his best
friends, fellow founders Lightning Lad and Saturn Girl, could have one
together.

Besides working with the Legion, Night Girl serves as one of the
instructors at the Legion Academy.


Powers and abilities

Night Girl has the powers of super-strength equivalent to that of
Superboy or Mon-El and durability (though not quite at Kryptonian
levels), but only in darkness or deep shadow. Her powers fade
immediately in the presence of direct sunlight.

Killing (or at least heavily injuring) creatures made of tangible shadow
seemingly allows her to temporarily absorb their essence into herself
and convert it into superstrength.

Since her super powers are often unavailable, she has trained
extensively and is a very capable hand-to-hand combatant.


In other media

Night Girl appeared in two episodes of the Legion of Super Heroes
animated series, "Lightning Storm" and "The Substitute". Both
appearances were non-speaking.

