OFFSPRING is a fictional comic book superhero in the  universe. He is
the son of Plastic Man, and has the same stretching powers as his
father.


Fictional character biography

Kingdom Come

Offspring's first appearance was in a one-shot issue of the same name, a
spin-off of the miniseries The Kingdom. His outfit was a predominantly
white all-in-one, with black areas laid out in a similar
hexagon/pentagon design to a classic 32-panel soccer ball; his hair also
had a hexagonal edge to its cut.

Offspring later appeared in the final issue of the The Kingdom
miniseries, teamed with Kid Flash, Nightstar, and Ibn al Xu'ffasch to
attempt to save the timestream from Gog. In this version he is named
ERNIE O'BRIAN. He is treated as a joke professionally and personally by
his friends, family, and even foes. However he learns to accept his
place on the team as the funny member. His relationship with his dad is
close and happy; however, his girlfriend, Micheline, is unhappy with the
lack of respect his goofy behavior is causing.

Mainstream continuity

Although Offspring did not exist in the then-current  continuity, it
was revealed in the pages of JLA that Plastic Man does have a son named
LUKE "LOOGIE" MCDUNNAGH - his illegitimate child by "Angel" McDunnagh -
who has powers greater than his own, with the ability to easily change
his color and mass as well as his shape. He initially appeared when
Plastic Man asked Batman for his help in scaring the kid straight after
he fell in with a gang, Plastic Man admitting in the process that he ran
away from Luke's mother after getting over the irony of a rubber man
accidentally getting someone pregnant because he was afraid of turning
out like his own father. Although Batman subsequently intimidated Luke
into leaving the gang and going back to his mother, he noted during a
conversation with Plastic Man that he was disappointed in the other man
because he had always thought that he would be the best father of the
League as he believed Plastic Man would show his children that he
loved them rather than just telling them, and advised him to consider
getting back in touch with his son later.

After the Obsidian Age storyline saw Plastic Man spend three thousand
years scattered across the ocean floor as crumbs until the League of the
present were able to stick him back together, he took time off to be
with Luke, even mentally 'programming' himself to forget his heroic
identity and powers, but Luke and Batman convinced him to go back to
action when the Martian Manhunter regressed to a 'Burning Martian'
identity as the telepathy-immune Plastic Man was the only person capable
of opposing him in a fight.

Offspring appears briefly in Teen Titans vol.3, #34, and it is shown
that he served as a member of the Titans during the one year jump. The
character wears a white costume with red goggles, a costume similar to
that of The Kingdom's Offspring. In Geoff Johns's script for Teen
Titans #34, it is revealed that he is indeed Plastic Man's son,
Luke. Additionally, in Teen Titans #38, a photograph is displayed
showing Offspring and Plastic Man next to each other.

In 52 Week 35, Offspring appears, recovering from overstretching after
saving twenty members of Lex Luthor's "Everyman" hero groups. Lex had
deactivated their powers, causing dozens to fall from the sky. During
his appearance he is called "Ernie" by Plastic Man, not Luke. In Week
40, he assists Steel in launching an attack on Lexcorp when Natasha is
captured by Luthor. He's later involved with the storyline of World War
III. He tries to defeat the insane Black Adam by grasping his brain
from the inside; this plan fails. He is able to recover fast, later
joking with his father about the lack of humor of his superpowered foe.

In Countdown to Mystery it is revealed that Ernie is his middle name,
and Luke his first name, as Offspring criticizes his father for
preferring to call him Ernie, a name with which the young hero is less
than enamored.

Offspring is later one of teen heroes captured and brainwashed into
fighting at the Dark Side Club. After being rescued by Miss Martian and
Ravager, Offspring is offered a spot on the Teen Titans line-up by
Wonder Girl. Like most of the other survivors, he declines. During
Superboy-Prime's attack on Titans Tower, Offspring appears as one of the
former Titans who arrives to help fight him off.


Powers and abilities

Offspring inherited Plastic Man's powers, but he has "greater control,"
according to Batman. He can instantly change size, density, and even
color more effectively and efficiently.


Other versions

-   The 1966-1968 Plastic Man comic book series starred EEL
    O'BRIAN, JR. as the new Plastic Man. In issue #7, it is revealed
    that he was born the non-super powered son of Plastic Man and an
    unnamed brunette wife. As a toddler, he drank the same acid that had
    given his father super powers. As an adult, he became the new
    Plastic Man and was romantically involved with Micheline "Mike"
    DeLute III (who would later re-appear as the girlfriend of Offspring
    in the Kingdom Come continuity). During the course of the
    series, Eel Jr. teamed with the Inferior Five, which established the
    continuity of this series on Earth-Twelve.


In other media

Television

-   The 1979-1981 The Plastic Man Comedy/Adventure Show animated
    series introduced Baby Plas as the son of Plastic Man and his blonde
    wife Penny during the show's second season. Baby Plas was born with
    the same powers as his father. The character was featured in his own
    "Baby Plas" cartoon segments, as well as "Plastic Family"
    cartoon segments with his father, mother, and Hula-Hula (his
    father's best friend). His formal birth name is not revealed in
    the series.
-   The 2008-2011 Batman: The Brave and the Bold animated series
    featured Baby Plas in the episode titled "Long Arm of the Law!".
    In this series, Baby Plas is the son of Plastic Man and red-haired
    wife Ramona. He is also cared for by Plastic Man's best friend Woozy
    Winks (who had been replaced by the Hula-Hula character in the prior
    animated series). Like the prior version of Baby Plas, he inherited
    his father's stretching powers. Likewise, his formal birth name is
    not revealed.

