OMAC (BUDDY BLANK) is a superhero comic book created in 1974 by Jack
Kirby and published by . The character was created towards the
end of Kirby's contract with the publisher, following the cancellation
of his New Gods series and was reportedly developed strictly due to
Kirby needing to fill his contractual quota of 15 pages a week. As
envisioned by Kirby, OMAC is essentially Captain America set in the
future, an idea Kirby had toyed with some years earlier while at 
Comics but had never realized.


Publication history

Set in the near future ("The World That's Coming"), OMAC is a
corporate nobody named BUDDY BLANK who is changed via a
"computer-hormonal operation done by remote control" by an A.I.
satellite called "Brother Eye" into the super-powered One-Man Army Corps
(OMAC).

OMAC works for the Global Peace Agency (GPA), a group of faceless people
who police the entire world using pacifistic weapons. The world
balance is too dangerous for large armies, so OMAC is used as the main
field enforcement agent for the Global Peace Agency. The character
initially uses his abilities to save a female coworker at the
Pseudo-People factory (manufacturers of androids initially intended as
companions, but later developed as assassins). The coworker is revealed
to be in actuality a bomb, and Blank is left in the employ of the GPA,
sacrificing his identity in their relentless war, with faux parents his
only consolation and companions.

The original OMAC series ended with its eighth issue
(November–December 1975), canceled before the last storyline could be
completed, and Kirby wrote an abrupt ending to the series. In Kamandi
#50, by other creators, OMAC is tied into the back-story and shown to be
Kamandi's grandfather. An OMAC back-up feature by Jim Starlin began
in issue #59 (Sept.-Oct. 1978), but Kamandi was cancelled after its
first appearance. The story was later printed in The Warlord, and led
to a new OMAC back-up series in that title (#37-39, 42-47). OMAC
appeared with Superman in  Presents #61.

In 1991 OMAC was featured in a four-issue prestige format limited
series by writer/artist John Byrne that tied up loose ends left from
previous series. Byrne later reused OMAC in Superman & Batman:
Generations 3, an Elseworlds limited series.

In Countdown to Final Crisis, Buddy Blank is featured as a retired,
balding professor with a blond-haired grandson. In #34, he is mentioned
but not seen, and is referred to as having direct contact with Brother
Eye. He is contacted by Karate Kid and Una in Countdown #31, and
appears in #28 and 27. A version of Buddy from Earth-51 appears in #5
and 6, in which the Morticoccus virus is released. The virus results in
worldwide destruction. Buddy leaves his Project Cadmus laboratory job;
assisted by Una, he attempts to rescue his daughter and grandson. They
search for Buddy's family in Metropolis, where they are attacked by
humanoid rats. Una and Buddy's daughter are both devoured, but one of
them manages to pass a Legion flight ring to Buddy. He uses it to take
his grandson to safety in the scientific facility "Command D" in
Blüdhaven. In the final issue, Countdown to Final Crisis #1, Brother
Eye rescues Buddy and his grandson from the bunker and from starvation
by turning Buddy into a prototype OMAC with free will. This entity
resembles the original Jack Kirby OMAC.


Powers and abilities

Through interfacing with the Brother Eye satellite, via an invisible
beam to his receiver belt, Buddy Blank is transformed into OMAC and
imbued with an array of superhuman abilities based on density control.
An increase in density causes superhuman strength and enhanced
durability, and a decrease in density allows flight and super-speed.
Brother Eye could provide other abilities as well, such as self-repair
functions and energy generation.


Other versions

OMACs

[The modern OMAC. Cover to The OMAC Project #5 (Oct. 2005). Art by
José Ladrönn.] The character, along with the Brother Eye satellite, was
reimagined for the Infinite Crisis storyline. OMACs are portrayed as
cyborgs, humans whose bodies have been corrupted by a nano-virus. The
characters retain OMAC's mohawk and Brother Eye symbol on their chests.
The characters are featured in The OMAC Project limited series which
precedes Infinite Crisis, and a subsequent OMAC limited series. The
acronym has multiple meanings through the series: "Observational
Meta-human Activity Construct", "One-Man Army Corps", and "Omni
Mind And Community."

Other

-   In the Superman storyline "For Tomorrow" (2004-2005), two
    super-soldiers were featured, each representing a generation of
    cybernetically enhanced warriors named "One-Man Army Corps". They
    bore no physical resemblance to any other version of the OMAC.
-   The Tangent Comics comic The Joker's Wild (1998) parodied OMAC
    with a beta-version automated policeman called "Omegatech Mechanoid
    Armored Cop".
-    would later make a nod to OMAC during the  One Million event
    in 1998. In Superboy #1,000,000, one of the future Superboys is
    known as Superboy OMAC, or "One Millionth Actual Clone", and the
    title of the story was "One Million And Counting", repeating the
    acronym. He appeared in the Superboy and Young Justice
    specials, as well as the  One Million mini-series. His
    appearance is based on OMAC, and he gains increased power from
    Brother Eye.
-   In Kingdom Come, Alex Ross created a female version of OMAC named
    OWAC (One-Woman Army Corps).
-   The  One Million 80 Page Giant introduced a female Luthor with
    OMAC elements who called herself the One Woman Adversary
    Chamber.
-   OMAC made a brief appearance in Elseworlds' JLA: Another Nail when
    all time periods meld together.
-   Some basic OMAC units resembling the first OMAC were featured in
    Final Crisis.


In other media

Television

thumb|right|200px|OMAC from Batman: Brave and the Bold episode "When
OMAC Attacks."

-   The original OMAC, Buddy Blank appears in the Batman: The Brave and
    the Bold episode "When OMAC Attacks" voiced by Jeff Bennett. OMAC
    battles Shrapnel in a long and destructive battle arranged by
    Equinox. In this episode, Buddy did not know he was OMAC until
    Batman tells him his purpose. While OMAC handles Shrapnel, Batman
    interrogates and fights Equinox. Shrapnel is eventually brought to
    justice by OMAC and the previously clumsy Buddy Blank buys time for
    Batman to stop a nuclear meltdown by distracting Equinox after
    reverting from his OMAC form. In "The Power of Shazam," OMAC is
    among the heroes that got taken over by the Starros.

Video games

-   Batman's ending in Mortal Kombat vs.  Universe involves him
    creating "OMAC" (Outerworld Monitor and Auto Containment) robot
    versions of Batman to maintain the balance between Earthrealm and 
    Universe. It is designed to monitor and trap invaders from
    different universes.

Toys

-   OMAC was released as a figure in the Justice League Unlimited
    toyline and as a figure in wave 15 of Mattel's " Universe
    Classics" line.
-   Versions of the modern OMAC have been released in both Mattel's 
    Universe and  Direct toy lines.


Collected editions

-   JACK KIRBY'S O.M.A.C.: ONE MAN ARMY CORPS collects O.M.A.C.: One
    Man Army Corps #1-8, 200 pages, May 2008, ISBN 1-4012-1790-7

