ORION is a fictional character, a superhero that appears in comic books
published by . The character first appeared in New Gods #1
(February 1971), and was created by writer-artist Jack Kirby.


Publication history

Jack Kirby Era

Orion originally appeared in New Gods #1 (Feb.-March 1971) which
was part of Jack Kirby's Fourth World titles published in the early
1970s. Other titles included in this metaseries were Superman's Pal
Jimmy Olsen, Mister Miracle and The Forever People. When the titles
were canceled, Orion and his fellow New Gods characters were unseen
until  returned to the Fourth World concept a few years later.

Return of the New Gods

Following an appearance in the final issue of 1st Issue Special, 
revived both the New Gods and Mister Miracle series,
continuing the numbering from the original series. The new stories were
done without Jack Kirby and featured a number of changes of concept for
the character of Orion. The character's "Astro Harness" and trademark
helmet were replaced by a more standard superhero costume with a yellow
mask. The New Gods title was again canceled in 1978 but the story was
wrapped up in two issues of Adventure Comics featuring a "final
battle" between Orion and his father, Darkseid. In this battle Darkseid
was supposedly annihilated.

This version of Orion returned in a three issue arc of Justice League
of America in which most of the New Gods were captured by the forces of
Apokolips. Orion and his fellow New Gods, Metron, Mister Miracle, and
Big Barda, summoned the aid of the Justice League and Justice Society to
aid them in freeing the forces of New Genesis. This story featured the
return, and eventual defeat, of Orion's father.

Post-Crisis

Following the Crisis on Infinite Earths, Orion was featured in the
1989-90 series New Gods (vol. 3) and served a short stint in the
Justice League along with his friend Lightray during the Keith Giffen/J.
M. DeMatteis run. Orion returned as a main character in New Gods (vol.
4) which was later relaunched as Jack Kirby's Fourth World. Orion
again served as a member of the Justice League during Grant Morrison's
tenure on the title, but the character would not receive his own title
until 2000.

Orion

ORION was a series penciled and written by Walt Simonson, centered
around the eponymous character and which ran for 25 issues (June
2000-June 2002). John Byrne filled in as penciller for the main stories
in issues 13 and 14. Issues 1-5 were reprinted by  in the trade
paperback The Gates of Apokolips. Also included as reprints were
portions from the Secret Origins of Super-Villains 80-Page Giant,
issue #1 and the Legends of the  Universe 80-Page Giant, issue #2.

A backup that ran consistently in the Orion book was "Tales of the New
Gods". Simonson invited fellow artists and, on occasion, writers to
provide a short story often supplementing the issue's main action.


Fictional character biography

[Cover for Orion #1 (June 2000). Art by Walt Simonson] Orion is the
second son of Darkseid, half brother of Kalibak and Grayven, and the
husband of Bekka. As a child, he was traded for Scott Free in a peace
effort between New Genesis and Apokolips. Raised as the son of
Highfather Izaya, he was taught to control his rage and anger, becoming
the most powerful warrior either world has ever known. This in itself
was not an easy task given that his heritage boiled with the rage of the
brutal and merciless Darkseid. Learning how to control his dark nature
consumed much of Orion's youth, but as he grew, his friends among the
New Gods helped him direct his anger. Orion counts among his friends
Lightray, Metron, Jezebelle, Scott Free, Big Barda, and Forager. He is a
hero dedicated to the ideals of New Genesis. His fighting skill and
stamina have earned him the nickname "The Dog of War".

The 25 issue Walt Simonson series was designed to follow the continuity
of the original Fourth World series, and was published after John
Byrne's "Jack Kirby's Fourth World" series ended. To flesh out the
series, characters such as Fourth World stalwarts Lightray, Darkseid,
Desaad, and Kalibak, in addition to lesser used characters such as Tigra
(early on in the series), Mortalla, and the Newsgroup Legion (an update
of the Newsboy Legion) often supplied aid or ill intentions to the quick
tempered Orion.

During Simonson's series, Orion was able to obtain the Anti-Life
Equation, the source Darkseid was in search of. He then went to
Apokolips and confronted Darkseid about his birth, and fought for
control of Apokolips. He refused to use the Anti-Life Equation due to
issues of pride and earning his destiny unaided. He defeated Darkseid
and gained control of Apokolips. With the Anti-Life Equation, Orion went
to Earth to begin creating intergalactic peace. He turned Earth into a
utopian world that began disrupting the balance of the universe. It was
revealed that Darkseid, alongside Metron, allowed Orion to defeat him,
so he could understand the potential of the Anti-Life Equation.

[Orion kills Darkseid.] Orion has served two terms with the Justice
League. He first demanded to join the League alongside his friend
Lightray. They were accepted into the ranks and stayed on until
after the battle with the Evil Eye. Later, he and Big Barda were
sent as agents of New Genesis to serve in the JLA. During his time
in the League, Orion helped to defeat the returned Starro when its
actions put almost the entirety of North America to sleep, and also
aided Green Lantern, Steel, Plastic Man, and Barda in capturing a White
Martian that had regained its original memory. On one occasion, when he
and some of the other Leaguers were abducted by the apparently insane
Adam Strange as part of a plot to defeat a telepathic race, Steel was
forced to steal Orion's Mother Box and use it as a telepathic shield;
Orion was so enraged that the Mother Box was devoting too much energy to
keeping him calm to do anything else. However, Orion and Barda's central
mission was to help mobilize Earth's heroes against the coming of the
omnipotent Mageddon. Once again, Orion abandoned his Mother Box, giving
it to Oracle while he confronted Mageddon at full ferocity, Oracle using
it to set up a telepathic online network that could coordinate the
heroes as they fought to stop the wars that Mageddon's presence was
inciting. Once Mageddon was defeated, he and Barda resigned.

Years later, Orion returns to Earth via Boom Tube for his final battle
with Darkseid. During the massive fight, Orion ultimately kills him by
ripping his heart out, creating a firepit of Apokolips from Darkseid's
chest cavity in reference to the prophecy of their final battle. As
Darkseid dies, a battered, wounded Orion walks away from the battlefield
having "won" the battle against his father once and for all.

However, Darkseid's life essence endured even the death of his body and
fell back in time, where he was reborn as "Boss Dark Side". Aided by his
resurrected minions and the super-villain Libra, Darkseid successfully
unleashed the Anti-Life Equation onto humanity and in the process,
dragged Earth outside time and space, threatening the entire multiverse
in the process. From this point, Darkseid sought his revenge against his
son by firing a time travel-based gun backwards in time to kill Orion
once and for all. The bullet killed Orion, who by this point had
realized that his father and his fellow evil New Gods still lived and
were now possessing human beings as host bodies. With his last strength,
Orion warns the man who finds his dying body, Detective Dan "Terrible"
Turpin, that "They are not dead- He is in you all." His final command,
appropriate for the Dog of War, is for humanity to "Fight..." before he
finally dies.

Ironically, Darkseid's murder of his son would ultimately backfire on
him. Green Lantern John Stewart would recover the bullet used to kill
Orion and give it to Batman, who would ultimately be forced to mortally
wound Darkseid with the very same bullet Darkseid used to kill his own
son; an irony Superman pointed out, when he described the murder of
Orion as "suicide" on Darkseid's part, due to the fate of the bullet.

While many of the Gods from New Genesis were reborn following Final
Crisis, Orion is not among them. Metron is seen standing over his
astro-harness in effigy.

The New 52

In The New 52 (a reboot of the  universe), Orion has appeared
as a supporting character in the Wonder Woman title. After consulting
with the Source, he first joins Wonder Woman in her search for a child
which was abducted by the gods of Olympia.


Powers and abilities

Orion possesses superhuman strength, speed, stamina and durability, on
par with his father Darkseid, as well as with Superman. Although he
is a highly skilled warrior noted for a fierce warrior's instinct
his great rage also makes him impulsive. He has access to a Mother
Box that can calm his temper and change his appearance, "smoothing" out
his coarse features. In addition, Orion also possesses a
regenerative healing factor, and is able to call upon his Mother Box to
assist in healing injuries or to sustain his life energies. Like all
other New Gods, Orion is vulnerable to a substance called RADION. The
"Astro-Harness" is an alien artifact of unknown origin, capable of
self-repair; flight at incredible speeds; inter-spatial and
inter-dimensional travel; energy projection and absorption; force
field generation; and possesses a tractor beam. Orion's wristbands are
also virtually indestructible.

Orion also is able to harness an interdimensional energy called the
"Astro Force". While Orion himself is a conduit for the Astro Force, he
can use either the Astro Harness or his wristbands as a valve through
which he can project this energy. He uses the Astro Force primarily as a
weapon, but once he was shown to be able to use the Astro Force to
create an energy shield powerful enough to deflect Darkseid's otherwise
unstoppable "Omega Effect". Like his father and all members of the
Fourth World, Orion is immortal.


Other versions

[Orion takes his father's place as the Lord of Apokolips in Kingdom
Come. Art by Alex Ross.] In addition to his mainstream incarnation,
Orion has been depicted in other fictional universes:

-   In the graphic novel Kingdom Come, Orion has overthrown Darkseid
    and is the reluctant ruler of Apokolips, his aged and battle-scarred
    appearance is similar to that of his father's.
-   In the Mister Miracle series of Grant Morrison's Seven Soldiers,
    Orion is a large, muscular African-American man, seen pushing
    Metron's wheelchair.
-   In the satirical miniseries Captain Carrot and the Final Ark,
    Orion is a dog named Orihound.
-   In the Tangent Comics imprint, Orion is a superpowered being with
    transwarp powers that allow him to transport himself, others and
    objects anywhere on earth. He can transport beings across the Bleed
    into other universes with the aid of an additional power source such
    as Green Lantern Power Rings. He currently aids the Superman of
    Earth-9.


In other media

Television

[Orion, as depicted in Superman: The Animated Series.]

-   Orion appears in Superman: The Animated Series (1996) episodes
    Apokolips...Now!_ part 1 & 2, voiced by Steve Sandor. In part 1,
    Orion comes to earth to warn Superman of the impending invasion.
    Together he and Superman manage to turn back the first wave of
    attack but after Orion leaves, another attack comes and Orion can't
    be contacted. In part 2, Orion tells Darkseid that Earth is now
    under the protection of Highfather and any attack will be a breach
    of their treaty. Darkseid begins to retreat after a few words, and
    Turpin mocks him. Stating how no victory comes easily, Darkseid
    fires his Omega Beams at Turpin, killing him, then disappears into a
    boom tube. Superman, mad with grief, destroys Darkseid's tank. Orion
    then offers his condolences.
-   Orion appears in the Justice League episodes "Twilight" part 1 & 2
    voiced by Ron Perlman. He is depicted as being very serious when it
    comes to facing threats and fighting criminals. When he first
    appears in "Twilight," Orion helps the Justice League at the time
    when Darkseid was collaborating with Brainiac. He also makes a short
    cameo in "Hereafter" as an attendant of Superman's funeral.
-   Orion has made cameos in Justice League Unlimited voiced again by
    Ron Perlman. In "The Return" as one of the many heroes in the first
    line of defense against Amazo. In "Flash and Substance," Orion helps
    Batman at the time when Flash was being targeted by Captain Cold,
    Captain Boomerang, Mirror Master, and Trickster. When it came to the
    bar where Flash's villains go to unwind, Orion tried to use torture
    to interrogate Trickster only for Flash to intervene and get some
    answers out of Trickster. Orion joins Batman and Flash when it comes
    to battling Captain Boomerang, Captain Cold, and Mirror Master at
    the Flash Museum. Strangely, though, he is nowhere to be seen in the
    finale "Destroyer". In an odd bit of mishandled editing, Orion is
    seen as one of the heroes confronting Luthor's survivors at the end
    of "Alive!" But when the scene is replayed in the teaser of
    "Destroyer", Orion has been removed. When it is shown a third time,
    over the closing credits, Orion is back in the picture again.
-   In the final season of Smallville, during the episode "Dominion"
    it is mentioned that the last time Darkseid came to Earth he was
    defeated by a warrior named Orion, leaving behind a weapon known as
    the Bow of Orion. In the following episode, Orion is confirmed
    to be Darkseid's son who managed to turn away from the darkness of
    his father with the help of another person who raised him to embrace
    the light.

Film

-   Although he doesn't make an appearance, Orion is referenced in the
    animated film Superman/Batman: Apocalypse. Batman, Superman and
    Wonder Woman travel to Apokolips with the help of Big Barda. Upon
    arrival, Batman makes use of an Astro-Harness, identical to the one
    used by Orion.
-   An alternate universe version of Orion appears in Justice League:
    Gods and Monsters voiced by Josh Keaton. Here, he grew up as
    royalty in Apokolips and was to be married to Bekka to merge the
    kingdoms as part of a supposed peace treaty, and Bekka saw something
    different in Orion compared to the other Apokolips residents. Orion
    gives Bekka an indestructible sword with a Boom Tube as a
    wedding gift. Bekka tries to get Orion to leave as the New Genesis
    residents slaughter the Apokolips royalty, but he goes back to fight
    and is killed by the Highfather. His death inspires Bekka to leave
    and eventually become the superheroine Wonder Woman.

Video games

-   Orion appears in  Universe Online.
-   A statue of Orion's head is seen in the Hall of Justice stage in
    Injustice: Gods Among Us.
-   Orion appears as a playable character in Lego Batman 3: Beyond
    Gotham, voiced by Nolan North.

