OWLWOMAN is a fictional character, a superheroine in the  Universe.


Fictional character biography

WENONAH LITTLEBIRD is a full-blooded Native American from Oklahoma who
represents the Kiowa tribe. She became Owlwoman and was first seen
helping Hawkman and his wife Hawkwoman dismantle a bomb in the darkness
of an Oklahoma field. She also takes part in the Crisis on Infinite
Earths. She was offered a chance to become a member of the Global
Guardians, a team of international heroes, and she accepted. While on
the team, she fell for her teammate Jack O'Lantern, and the two quickly
became a couple.

After her boyfriend left the Global Guardians, Owlwoman went to Bialya
and was brainwashed into joining the Queen Bee's army. The two ex-Global
Guardians helped the Queen Bee take over the world. Jack O'Lantern and
Owlwoman were manipulated by the Queen Bee into forcing the other Global
Guardians under her control. In a battle with the Justice League,
Owlwoman betrayed her teammates and killed an imposter Jack O'Lantern.
She later found the real Jack O'Lantern alive in a dungeon, as well as
Doctor Mist.

Fain

The three heroes later reunited the Global Guardians. Unfortunately,
Fain Y'onia now targeted the group. Godiva and Impala lost their powers.
Bushmaster is shot dead during a confrontation with Fain. In the final
battle in the Arizona desert, Tuatara was knocked into a coma and
Thunderlord was killed.

New team

Working out of the Dome (now located on an unrevealed Pacific island),
Owlwoman and the surviving Guardians erected a statue memorial to their
dead friends. It is eventually revealed that the Martian Manhunter
helped the team recruit members including Cascade of Indonesia, Centrix
of Canada, Tundra of Russia and Chrysalis of France. The new recruits
were met with approval by the others, and together they continue the
legacy of the Global Guardians.

Owlwoman and Olympian are two of the dozens of heroes featured in
Infinite Crisis #6, successfully protecting the city of Metropolis
from the Secret Society of Super-Villains.


Powers and abilities

Owlwoman has magical abilities that allow her to fly by riding
air-currents and see in total darkness. She also has heightened senses
of smell and hearing, and has excellent tracking and navigation skills.
After she was brainwashed by Queen Bee, Owlwoman gained retractable
claws that could slice through steel.


Other versions

A future version of Owlwoman based on Nite-Owl from Watchmen appeared
as a member of the Justice Legion Alpha in  One Million.

