PAULA BROOKS is a fictional comic book character published by .
She is one of many characters to use the names TIGRESS and HUNTRESS.
Brooks first appeared in Sensation Comics #68 as the Huntress, seeking
to add the superhero Wilat to her collection of big game hunting
trophies. Later, it is retroactively revealed that she was a heroine
named the Tigress before becoming a criminal.


Fictional character biography

[A full page of panel of Sensation Comics #68 (Aug. 1947), featuring
the Paula Brooks' debut.]

Pre-Crisis

As a member of the Injustice Society named the HUNTRESS that resides on
Earth-Two, she fights the Justice Society of America. During this period
she meets the original Sportsmaster, whom she later marries.

Prior to the Crisis on Infinite Earths, she battles Helena Wayne (who
had become the new Huntress) and is defeated. During this time, an
Earth-1 Huntress and Sportsmaster are revealed. They fight Batgirl and
Robin in "Batman Family" and then challenge the Earth-1 superheroes to a
baseball game between heroes and villains. When the heroes win, the
Earth-1 Huntress and Sportsmaster reform and aren't seen again. After
the Crisis on Infinite Earths,_ the Earth-1 pair cease to exist and the
Golden Age versions become the dominant version in the new unified
universe.

She never uses the Tigress name or her real name (Paula Brooks) during
her Pre-Crisis adventures.

Post-Crisis

In the pages of Young All-Stars she was retroactively renamed the
TIGRESS. These stories took place prior to her villainous career as the
Huntress.

At this point, the young PAULA BROOKS (approximately age 18-19) is a
superheroine, and fights both Nazis and criminals alongside Iron Munro,
the first Fury, Neptune Perkins, Tsunami, and Dan the Dyna-Mite. During
these stories, Paula expresses a fan worship of Paul Kirk, the
Manhunter. She frequently makes a play for Iron Munro as well. During
a battle with the Nazi warriors known as Axis Amerika, Tigress is
attacked and seemingly killed by the Valkyrie known as Gudra. She comes
back to life or was revived (it is unclear if she really was actually
dead) with a new attitude, which eventually leads to her becoming the
villainous Huntress. In the late 1990s JSA Returns mini-series,
Tigress has yet to fully embrace her villainous attitude and was still
operating as a heroine and companion of Manhunter.

At a later point, she permanently becomes a criminal, and eventually one
of Wilat's biggest foes. She also joins the Injustice Society, and
renames herself the Huntress. She later marries Sportsmaster (Crusher
Crock), one of the major foes of the Golden Age Green Lantern. They
become known as MR. AND MRS. MENACE and fight Black Canary and Starman
in the 1960s, as well as continuing to serve as members of the Injustice
Society.

At some point, Huntress and Sportsmaster have a daughter named Artemis
Crock. Artemis grows up to become a super-villain much like her
parents. As Artemis, she serves as a member of Injustice Unlimited,
fighting Infinity, Inc. She later takes the name Tigress III and serves
as part of the new Injustice Society.

The Paula Brooks Tigress/Huntress is later seen out of uniform in Young
Justice at an Olympics-type event where her daughter Artemis competes
on behalf of Zandia, a country that harbors super-villains.


Powers and abilities

Brooks has no powers or unusual technology, but she did utilize various
types of wild beasts in committing her crimes. She is also a skilled
hand-to-hand fighter whose nails were once sharpened like talons.

She also used a small vintage crossbow and a steady supply of crossbow
bolts. She has also been known to use throwing nets and bolos to trap
her prey.


Other versions

Elseworlds

Outside of regular U continuity, James Robinson and Paul Smith feature
the Tigress the 1993 The Golden Age. mini-series. In August 1948,
Paula Brooks is granted amnesty for her crimes in return for her
allegiance to Tex Thompson's newly created anti-communism force.
After learning that Thompson is actually the ruthless Ultra-Humanite
Brooks joins other heroes on January 8, 1950 in opposing him and his
allies. Traumatized by the deaths of her lover, Lance Gallant, and
friends such as Miss America and the Sportsmaster in the ensuing
conflict, Paula returns to crime. By 1955, she is reported to have "made
the F.B.I.'s most wanted list".


In other media

-   Paula Brooks (as Tigress) appears in a small cameo in the Batman:
    The Brave and the Bold episode "Aquaman's Outrageous Adventure."
    She was seen taking a family vacation with her husband Sportsmaster
    and her daughter Artemis.
-   A modified version of Paula Brooks appears in the Young Justice
    episode "Downtime" voiced by Kelly Hu. She is portrayed as a
    Vietnamese woman named Paula Nguyen using a wheelchair. She lives
    with her daughter, Artemis (who in this continuity is a teenaged
    super-heroine rather than the villainess Tigress), in a rundown
    apartment in Gotham City. She is aware of her daughter's vigilante
    activities, and states that she wishes for Artemis to go to Gotham
    Academy so that Artemis can have chance a better life than she did.
    Artemis was given opportunity to attend the prestigious school after
    being awarded a scholarship from the Wayne Foundation. A flashback
    in the episode "Home Front" reveals Paula was once in jail. It was
    revealed that Cheshire is also her daughter, Artemis' sister. In
    "Insecurity," it is revealed that she was once the villainess known
    as the Huntress and that Sportsmaster is Artemis' father.

