THE PEACEMAKER is the name of a series of superheroes originally owned
by Charlton Comics and later acquired by . The original
Peacemaker first appeared in Fightin' 5 #40 (Nov. 1966), and was
created by writer Joe Gill and artist Pat Boyette.


Publication history

The Peacemaker first appeared as a backup series in Charlton Comics'
espionage-team title Fightin' 5 #40 (Nov. 1966). When that series was
canceled with issue #41, the Peacemaker received his own title that
lasted five issues cover-dated March to November 1967, with the Fightin'
5 as a backup series. Some of penciler-inker Pat Boyette's artwork for a
projected sixth issue later appeared online.

Following Charlton Comics' demise in the mid-1980s,  acquired
The Peacemaker and released a four-issue mini-series (January–April
1988).


Fictional character biography

The Peacemaker is Christopher Smith, a pacifist diplomat so committed to
peace that he was willing to use force as a superhero to advance the
cause. He uses an array of special non-lethal weapons, and also founds
the PAX INSTITUTE. Most of the villains he goes up against are dictators
and warlords.

Smith later learns that his peace-through-violence efforts were the
result of a serious mental illness brought on by the shame of having a
Nazi death camp commandant for a father. He believes his father's spirit
haunts him continually and criticizes his every move, even as he tries
to live down his past. [Peacemaker #1 (March 1967), cover art by Pat
Boyette.] Becoming a particularly deadly vigilante who would kill at the
slightest notice, he begins to believe that the ghosts of the people he
killed, or who were killed in his vicinity, are collected inside his
helmet and can offer him advice and commentary. For a time, the
Peacemaker serves as a U.S. government agent under the auspices of
Checkmate, a special-forces unit, hunting down terrorists until his own
behavior becomes too extreme. He eventually crashes a helicopter to
destroy tanks controlled by the supervillain Eclipso and is reported
dead.

His soul shows up in the realm of Purgatory in the Day of Judgment
series. A team of heroes has shown up to recruit the soul of Hal Jordan.
The guardians of Purgatory do not like this and Peacemaker, along with
other dead vigilantes, rally and provide enough of a distraction so the
group can return to Earth.


Other versions

JLI Peacemaker

Another operative using the name Peacemaker appeared only once, in
Justice League International (vol. 2) #65, as a member of the
"League-Busters". [The "League-Buster" Peacemaker from Justice League
International (vol. 2) #65 (June 1994), art by Chuck Wojtkiewicz.]

Mitchell Black

Mitchell Black, a surgeon, was recruited by the "Peacemaker Project", an
organization unaffiliated with the Pax Institute and the US government's
"Project Peacemaker". Black would reappear in the miniseries titled
LAW (Living Assault Weapons), reunited with the other heroes acquired
from Charlton. As a team, they investigated a powerful being targeting
military facilities. He appeared to have been killed by the supervillain
Prometheus in Infinite Crisis #7 during a battle to save Metropolis
from destruction.

Peacemaker in Blue Beetle

Another individual appearing in the pre-Flashpoint Blue Beetle series
has claimed both Smith's name and the Peacemaker identity, both things
confirmed by several hints, such as his catchphrase of "loving peace so
much, he'd kill for it." spoken by La Dama to define him. However,
divested of his trademark helmet, he was shown using the 'Mitchell
Black' identity before settling again on his real name. A year prior
to his meeting with Jaime, during a fight against Intergang, he found
himself in a Bialyan pyramid that happened to be the same one Dan
Garrett found the scarab in years before. While inside, he accidentally
came into contact with alien technology that allowed him to receive the
scarab's database in his mind, explaining the inability of the Reach to
control Garrett and Reyes. The Scarab was taken away with only a partly
functioning AI with the higher instructions, including the ones needed
to control the host, left in the pyramid and downloaded into Smith's
mind. Sensing the connection he sought out Jaime, initially to see if
the boy would become a threat but eventually becoming a reluctant
partner. Upon witnessing Jaime's rebellion, the Reach implanted
Peacemaker with a scarab himself, which was dormant until a Sinestro
Corps Power Ring contacted the AI and assigned him control of Space
Sector 2, including the Reach Empire. He was sent to kill Jaime, but
Jaime interfaced with Smith's scarab and helped him face his inner
fears. Gathering enough courage for a last stand, Smith forcibly cut the
scarab from his spine, leaving him injured but not dead. He helped
defend Jaime's family from a Reach attack, and has continued to serve as
a sort of mentor to the third Blue Beetle. At the conclusion of the Blue
Beetle volume, Peacemaker leaves El Paso; before he departs, he bids
farewell to Jaime and advises him to learn to become his own man. Later,
he makes an appearance in Final Crisis Aftermath: Escape, as a
detainee and potential recruit of the Global Peace Agency.

Miscellaneous

-   The Peacemaker was briefly shown in flashbacks in Alex Ross and Mark
    Waid's comic Kingdom Come as a member of Magog's Justice
    Battalion, along with the rest of the Charlton "Action Heroes". In
    them, he is wearing an outfit more reminiscent of Boba Fett. He was
    apparently killed with the other team members when Captain
    Atom exploded.
-   The character is used as the basis for The Comedian in Alan Moore's
    Watchmen.
-   Peacemaker is mentioned in the comic book series based on the TV
    series Young Justice, where it is revealed that after Jaime Reyes
    became the Blue Beetle, he met Peacemaker. Peacemaker later told
    Nightwing that he was a good kid. Peacemaker also seems to not
    approve of the Team and doesn't want Blue Beetle joining it, but
    Nightwing and Wonder Girl recruit him into the Team anyway.
-   In the final issue of 52, a new Multiverse is revealed, originally
    consisting of 52 identical realities. Among the parallel realities
    shown is one designated "Earth-4". As a result of Mister Mind
    "eating" aspects of this reality, it takes on visual aspects similar
    to the pre-Crisis Earth-4, including Peacemaker and the other
    Charlton characters. The names of the characters are not mentioned
    in the panel in which they appear.

 Based on comments by Grant Morrison, this alternate universe is not the
pre-Crisis Earth-4.

-   In Pax Americana, the fourth issue of Grant Morrison's
    Multiversity series and set on Earth-4, Peacemaker is one of the
    protagonists, along with Blue Beetle, Captain Atom, Nightshade, and
    Judomaster.

