PIG IRON, real name (PETER PORKCHOPS), is a fictional funny animal pig
who appeared in stories published by . Peter was created by
Otto Feuer, and first appeared in Leading Comics #23 (February/March
1947).


Fictional character biography

Golden and Silver Ages

Peter's adventures mostly consisted of light-hearted fare, usually
involving his neighbor A. Wolf (or "Wolfie" as Peter called him). The
stories consisted mainly of Wolfie getting up to crafty get-rich-quick
schemes with Peter thwarting him at every turn. In spite of this, it was
an essentially friendly relationship.

Peter became one of 's most successful funny animal characters,
gaining his own comic in December 1949. Peter appeared throughout the
1950s, with Leading Comics canceled with its 77th issue in 1955;
Peter's own comic was canceled with Peter Porkchops #62 in December
1960. He then ceased to appear (except for a few reprints) for the next
several decades.

Bronze Age

In 1982, Peter was brought back in a special insert in New Teen Titans
#16 (February 1982). In this incarnation he is a steel mill worker in
the Earth-C city of Piggsburg. While working one day over a vat, an
irradiated meteor fragment slams into Peter, knocking them both into the
molten steel; when he emerges, Peter finds himself transformed into a
super-strong being of living metal, and soon becomes a superhero named
PIG IRON (a reference to the word "pig iron", a part of the steel making
process).

As Pig Iron, Peter joins the Zoo Crew in Captain Carrot and His Amazing
Zoo Crew, and embarks on various adventures, including facing off
against his former neighbor Wolfie, who has been transformed into a
"Wuz-Wolf" (Earth-C's version of a werewolf; in this case, a wolf who
turned into a monstrous human). Pig Iron's personality, unlike
Peter's, tended to be much more aggressive and abrasive, similar to that
of the Fantastic Four's Thing, although unlike the Thing, Peter finds
his metal form more to his liking.

With Captain Carrot and His Amazing Zoo Crew canceled after its 20th
issue in 1983, Peter (as either Pig Iron or his normal self) once more
fell into disuse, and didn't appear in a  for many years.

Modern Age

Peter appears in the miniseries Captain Carrot and the Final Ark.
During a battle with the villain Starro, Pig Iron falls into the flooded
world of Earth-26. The Zoo Crew, in the midst of leaving the planet, are
unable to go back for him. However, he is next seen in Final Crisis
#7, alive and well and participating in the climatic battle.


Powers and abilities

In his Pig Iron form, Peter is encased in a metallic skin that gives him
superhuman strength and endurance, and invulnerability. His major
weakness is that he is constantly hungry. Fortunately, he can eat almost
anything.

