PHANTOM LADY is a fictional superheroine, one of the first female
superhero characters to debut in the 1940s Golden Age of Comic Books.
Originally published by Quality Comics, the character was subsequently
published by a series of now-defunct comic book companies, and a new
version of the character currently appears in books published by 
Comics.

As published by Fox Feature Syndicate in the late 1940s, the busty and
scantily-clad Phantom Lady is a notable and controversial example of
"good girl art," a style of comic art depicting voluptuous female
characters in provocative situations and pin-up poses that contributed
to widespread criticism of the medium's effect on children. Phantom Lady
was created by the Eisner & Iger studio, one of the first to produce
comics on demand for publishers. The character's early adventures were
drawn by Arthur Peddy. The character was ranked 49th in Comics Buyer's
Guide's "100 Sexiest Women in Comics" list.


Character origin and early publication history

[Panel from Quality Comics' Police Comics, depicting Phantom Lady's
black ray gun]

Quality Comics

Phantom Lady first appeared in Quality's Police Comics #1 (Aug, 1941),
an anthology title the first issue of which also included the debut of
characters such as Plastic Man and the Human Bomb. That issue
established her alter ego as Sandra Knight, the beautiful Washington,
D.C. debutante daughter of U.S. Senator Henry Knight. The issue
established that it was not her first appearance as the Phantom Lady,
but it did not go into her origin. Stories published decades later by 
Comics would give her a proper origin, which was altered several times
to give Sandra a more active role. Her skimpy costume was eventually
explained as a deliberate tactic to distract her usually male foes.

Sandra Knight assumed the identity of Phantom Lady in a costume
consisting of a green cape and the equivalent of a one-piece yellow
swimsuit. She used a "black light projector," a device which allowed her
to blind her enemies and make herself invisible. She drove a car whose
headlights also projected black light when necessary. She was sometimes
assisted by her fiance, Donald Borden, an agent of the U.S. State
Department.

Phantom Lady ran as one of the features in Police Comics through #23.
Arthur Peddy continued as the artist through #13, with Joe Kubert
drawing her feature in Police Comics #14-16; Frank Borth on #17-21;
Arthur Peddy returned for #22,; and Rudy Palais on #23. Phantom Lady
also appeared in Feature Comics #69-71 as part of a crossover with
Spider Widow and the Raven.

Fox Feature Syndicate & Star Publications

After Quality stopped publishing the adventures of Phantom Lady, what
was now simply Iger Studios believed it owned the character and assigned
it to Fox Feature Syndicate, a move that would later cause confusion as
to who actually owned the character's copyright. The Fox version which
premiered in Phantom Lady #13 (taking over the numbering of Wotalife
Comics)  is better known to contemporary comic fans than the Quality
version because of the "good girl art" of Matt Baker. Baker altered her
costume by changing the colors to red and blue, substantially revealing
her cleavage, and adding a very short skirt. Fox published Phantom
Lady only through issue 23 (Apr, 1949), though the character guest
starred in All-Top Comics #8-17, also with art by Baker. Her rogue's
gallery in these two Fox titles included the Avenging Skulls; the Fire
Fiend; the Killer Clown; Kurtz, the Robbing Robot; the Subway Slayer;
and Vulture.

[Phantom Lady vol. 1, #17 (April 1948), Fox Feature Syndicate. Cover
art by Matt Baker]

Baker's cover for Phantom Lady #17 (Apr, 1948) was reproduced in
Seduction of the Innocent, the 1954 book by Dr. Fredric Wertham
denouncing what he saw as the morally corrupting effect of comics on
children. The cover, which illustrated Phantom Lady attempting to escape
from ropes, was presented by Wertham with a caption that read, "Sexual
stimulation by combining 'headlights' with the sadist's dream of tying
up a woman." In the meantime, Fox went under and its assets were
acquired by other publishers, and a Phantom Lady story from All-Top
was then reprinted as a backup feature in Jungle Thrills by Star
Publications, which then itself went out of business.

Ajax-Farrell Publications

Ajax-Farrell Publications then published four issues of the second
Phantom Lady title, cover dated Dec. 1954/Jan. 1955 through June 1955.
The company also published her as a backup feature in two issues of
Wonder Boy.

[Phantom Lady vol. 2, #2 (March 1955) Ajax-Farrell Publications.]

By then, Wertham's efforts had led to a Congressional investigation into
the comics industry, and publishers formed the self-censoring Comics
Code Authority in the fall of 1954. Some changes were consequently made
to the Phantom Lady's costume, so that her cleavage was covered and
shorts replaced her skirt.

Charlton Comics & I.W. Publications

Farrell's assets were later acquired by Charlton Comics, and, until 
relaunched the character in the 1970s, Phantom Lady's only appearances
were in reprinted Matt Baker stories in the late 1950s and early 1960s.
Israel Waldman's I. W. Publications (later Super Comics), a company that
published unauthorized reprints from 1958–1964, included Phantom Lady
reprints in issues of Great Action Comics and Daring Adventures.
These comics featured new cover images of Phantom Lady that bore little
visual consistency either to the Fox version of the character or each
other (e.g., the character was blonde on one cover, brunette with a
brown costume on another).{{-}}




Sandra Knight

[Freedom Fighters #10 (Oct. 1977). Phantom Lady fights Cat-Man, with
fellow Quality superheroes the Human Bomb and Uncle Sam.]

In 1956,  obtained the rights to the Quality Comics characters,
which they believed included Phantom Lady, and reintroduced her 17 years
later with a group of other former Quality heroes as the Freedom
Fighters in Justice League of America #107 (Oct. 1973).

As was done with many characters  acquired from other publishers, or
that were holdovers from Golden Age titles, the Freedom Fighters were
relocated to a parallel world. Their particular earth was referred to as
"Earth-X". On Earth-X, Nazi Germany had won World War II. The team was
later featured in its own series for 15 issues (1976–1978), in which
they temporarily left Earth-X for "Earth-1" (where most  titles are
set) and Phantom Lady was given real phantom-like powers.

During the final issue of the original Freedom Fighters series, the
writers gave the character an origin story. One night, Sandra happened
across two would-be assassins targeting her father, and stealthily
thwarted them with nothing more than a rolled-up newspaper. Knight
consequently developed a taste for adventure and crime-fighting, and
after finding a "black light ray projector" that a family friend named
Professor Davis sent to her father, she adopted the device as a weapon.

In 1981, Phantom Lady became a recurring guest star of All-Star
Squadron, a superhero-team title set on "Earth-2", the locale for 's
World War II-era superheroes, and at a time prior to when she and the
other Freedom Fighters were supposed to have left for Earth-X. Phantom
Lady then appeared with the rest of 's superheroes in Crisis on
Infinite Earths, a story that was intended to eliminate the confusing
histories that  had attached to its characters by retroactively
merging the various parallel worlds into one. This left Phantom Lady's
Earth-X days written out of her history, and the Freedom Fighters became
a mere splinter group of the All-Star Squadron.

 also retconned the origin of Phantom Lady established in Quality's
Police Comics, so that she now belonged to the prestigious Knight
family of Opal City, a locale central to 's Starman line of heroes.
Her formative story was changed so that she overtook her father's
would-be assassins with her fists instead of a newspaper. Lastly, she
was given a more active role in the acquisition of her black light ray,
which she no longer received from a mere family friend but instead from
a scientist named Dr. Abraham Davis, who had escaped from
Nazi-controlled Europe. In the retelling, Sandra Knight gave asylum to
Davis, setting him up in a laboratory and helping him to complete his
invention. Ted Knight, now established as her cousin, also aided Davis,
as a result acquiring the technology that allowed him to become the
first Starman.

The 1994 title Damage established the post-World War II history for
Phantom Lady. She was made an agent of a Cold War-era government
intelligence agency called Argent, in which she met and married fellow
former-All Star Squadron member Iron Munro (a character introduced in
the 1986 series Young All-Stars). The two were paired on several
missions and fought a Soviet-backed agent named The Baron, actually the
German Baron Blitzkrieg, a foe both had met during World War II. Shortly
after becoming pregnant, Sandra was kidnapped by The Baron who stole the
fetus from her womb and left her for dead. After escaping from Communist
Poland, Sandra wanted out of the spy game and turned to an old friend,
Roy Lincoln. He helped her, and soon thereafter she started the
Universite Notre Dame Des Ombres (the University of Our Lady of the
Shadows) in the hopes of making further intelligence contacts and
finding her baby; unfortunately, she was not successful. Phantom Lady's
presence in the U.S. and her work with American Intelligence was kept a
secret to most; she never reunited with her husband, and in her old age
became headmistress of the school she began, now a training center for
female spies in Washington, D.C.

In Manhunter #23 (June, 2006), Phantom Lady met the current Manhunter,
Kate Spencer, and it was revealed that she was Spencer's grandmother.
Phantom Lady and Iron Munro were revealed to have had a child before
their marriage whom they gave up for adoption—Walter Pratt, Spencer's
father. The Golden Age Atom, Al Pratt, had allowed Phantom Lady to use
his contact information so that she could get into a home for unwed
mothers, causing the belief that the child was Pratt's son. Knight and
Munro still keep in contact, as she brought him to meet Kate and her
son, Ramsey.

Dee Tyler

[Dee Tyler as the Phantom Lady: Action Comics Weekly #639. Cover art
by Kevin Nowlan.]

A second Phantom Lady, Delilah "Dee" Tyler, was introduced in Action
Comics Weekly #636 (January, 1989) and was given a back-up feature in
that title through #641 with art by Chuck Austen. The daughter of the
U.S. Attorney General, Tyler was trained by the original Phantom Lady,
the now-elderly Sandra Knight, at the exclusive Université Notre Dame
des Ombres (Our Lady of the Shadows) in France. She inherited Knight's
equipment and costume.

It was heavily implied in that series that she was not alone in being
thus trained and equipped, as her "college roommate" Marie Saloppe also
appeared in the guise of Phantom Lady in Action Comics Weekly #639.
Tyler's primary ability was an extensive knowledge of the martial art
called Savate, also known as French kickboxing. She also possessed a
wrist-mounted blaster, and a holographic projector developed by her
childhood friend and roommate Sarah that could be used to cast powerful
illusions.

This successor Phantom Lady never received a series of her own, but was
a periodic guest star in other titles, including the 1988 Starman,
Flash, and most frequently in the 1994 Starman title. She joined a
new version of the Freedom Fighters in the 1999 JSA series.

The character was graphically killed (along with at least two other
Freedom Fighters) in Infinite Crisis #1 (Dec, 2005), in a battle
against the Society. The group was ambushed while investigating the
meeting place of other supervillains. Tyler was wounded by the Cheetah
and then fatally impaled by Deathstroke. Her body was hung on the
Washington Monument along with the Human Bomb and Black Condor.

In Blackest Night crossover, Tyler was reanimated as a member of the
Black Lantern Corps.

Stormy Knight

[Uncle Sam and the Freedom Fighters #1 (July 2006). Cover art by
Daniel Acuña.] A new Phantom Lady was introduced in Crisis Aftermath:
The Battle for Blüdhaven (2006), as one of the metahumans guarding
Blüdhaven. She appears in the limited series Uncle Sam and the Freedom
Fighters._ Her name is Stormy Knight and, like the original character,
her father is a U.S. Senator, though no connection to the other Knight
characters has been established.

She seems to know Father Time and has hinted that they've met before
with him in a different guise, referring to his look as "this year's
look is Colonel Sanders, Time?" She acts like a spoiled movie star and
treats her other teammates like the popular girl in high school would
treat the geeks (especially the Human Bomb and Major Force), but shows
some hint of respect for the new Doll Man, hinting that they worked
together for some time. Her wristbands not only project light but can
bend reality.

She does not maintain a secret identity. In Brave New World, a radio
program names her as Stormy Knight. Like other members of the Blüdhaven
team, this incarnation of Phantom Lady is a cold-blooded killer,
although there are indications in issue #1 of Uncle Sam and the Freedom
Fighters, as she finds herself defending her actions, that she may be
disturbed by what she is ordered to do. Also in issue #1, her father is
depicted in a more sympathetic light as a man who might disband the
Blüdhaven team if elected. He is murdered on orders of Father Time and
replaced by a doppelganger. It was believed that Senator Knight wanted
to run America as a dictatorship enforced by a metahuman army shown
through visions created by Uncle Sam, but it appears that the real
person who wants America this way is the individual running S.H.A.D.E.
This figure, a cyborg named Gonzo the Mechanical Bastard, is
impersonating Senator Knight.

In the second issue of Uncle Sam and the Freedom Fighters, Stormy
becomes a Freedom Fighter. She reveals that she has a degree in quantum
physics and pretends to be a spoiled idiot so she won't end up like
other socialites. Her wrists bands appear to be able to transport Stormy
and others from the third dimension to the fourth dimension.

In the second Uncle Sam and the Freedom Fighters series (Sep. 2007),
Stormy, still in shock over her father's death, begins to take drugs and
drink heavily. After she drunkenly cuts a super-powered troublemaker in
half on live television, Black Condor takes her to the extra-dimensional
Heartland, where Uncle Sam tells her she won't leave until her habit has
been kicked. Stormy later slits her wrists, but is found in time by Doll
Man. Miss America removes all the toxins from her systems, allowing her
to recuperate better.

By the end of the miniseries, Stormy decides to forgo her superhero
career to pursue an acting vocation.

She was invited by Oracle to join the Birds of Prey, but ended up
casually setting fire to her invitation immediately after reading it,
stating that she was already on someone else's payroll.

Jennifer Knight

In May of 2012,  announced on its website the release of a new
ongoing comic book, Phantom Lady and Doll Man,_ featuring completely
new versions of the characters, with no relation to their Freedom
Fighter predecessors other than the character names. These were part of
the "Second Wave" of its continuity reboot and entire-line relaunch,
"The New 52," begun in September 2011 following on from the Flashpoint
limited series.

Several years ago, Jennifer Knight witnessed the murder of her parents
on Christmas Eve. Her father had been one of the best reporters on the
Daily Planet's crime beat, and was close to breaking the case against
crime boss Robert Bender, until Bender found out. She swore to bring the
Bender family down and in the present tries to enact this by
infiltrating the inner circle of Cyrus and Eli Bender, the heirs to
Robert Bender's crime legacy. However her cover is quickly discovered
forcing Jennifer to seek help from her friend, Dane Maxwell, hoping to
use his genius to hack Cyrus Bender's cellphone. However Cyrus' henchmen
track them down and apparently kill Dane inside his own machine.
Jennifer is later rescued by Dane, who had become miniaturized. He gives
her a special suit and gloves enabling invisibility and shadow
manipulation. She then chooses to become a vigilante, known as Phantom
Lady.


Other versions

Other  versions

Silk Spectre

The second Silk Spectre in Watchmen by Alan Moore is based loosely upon
the Phantom Lady. Alan Moore had originally intended to use Charlton
Comics characters in his mini-series (until  told him otherwise),
which would imply that Silk Spectre was based on Charlton's Nightshade.
However, Moore found the Nightshade character boring, and based Silk
Spectre on the Phantom Lady and 's Black Canary instead.

Kingdom Come

A new Phantom Lady is shown in the Elseworlds comic Kingdom Come, who
is described in the series' endnotes as a literal phantom (ghost) of the
original version. Series co-creator Alex Ross used famed pin-up model
Bettie Page as his model for this version of Phantom Lady.

52

In the final issue of 52, a new Multiverse is revealed, originally
consisting of 52 identical realities. Among the parallel realities shown
is one designated "Earth-10". As a result of Mister Mind "eating"
aspects of this reality, it takes on visual aspects similar to the
pre-Crisis Earth-X, including the Quality characters. The names of the
characters and the team are not mentioned in the panel in which they
appear, but a character visually similar to the Sandra Knight Phantom
Lady appears.

Based on comments by Grant Morrison, this alternate universe is not the
pre-Crisis Earth-X.

Versions published by other companies

Cobweb

Cobweb appeared in Tomorrow Stories, an anthology title in Alan
Moore's America's Best Comics line. The character, created by Moore and
Melinda Gebbe was an eroticized homage to Phantom Lady. Cobweb, secretly
Laurel Lakeland, a rich society girl who battled crime out of sheer
boredom, with her chauffeur/lesbian partner, Clarice. Her skimpy costume
is reminiscent of both Matt Baker's version and of Silk Spectre, Moore's
Phantom lady analog in Watchmen

The Blue Bulleteer

[Femforce #38 (1991) AC Comics. The Blue Bulleteer, derived from Matt
Baker's Phantom Lady.]

In the 1970s, Bill Black's Paragon Publications began publishing its own
revival of Phantom Lady in titles such as Fem Fantastique, on the
belief that the character had lapsed into the public domain. Black's
Phantom Lady was an even more undressed version of the Matt Baker
character, and a mask and ordinary handgun were also added. When 
Comics threatened legal action, AC changed their version to "Nightveil,"
a supernaturally-themed character who was later made a member of
Femforce, the first all-female superhero team; the Bill Black version of
the Phantom Lady was retained as Nightveil's original superhero
identity, under the name "Blue Bulleteer."

AC Comics, as well as other minor publishers such as Verotik, have
nonetheless published reprints of the original Quality and Fox stories
without any legal action from . When Verotik published its
reprints, it was AC Comics that sued for trademark infringement, not 
Comics. Many believe these early stories to have lapsed into the public
domain because the original owners failed to renew the copyright before
it expired (as was required under pre-1976 U.S. copyright law).

Shadow Lady

Shadow Lady is a character seen in Big Bang Comics, all of whose
characters are parodies of . Like Sandra Knight, Veronica
Prescott is a wealthy debutante, whose father invented the "Shadow Ray
Projector". Shadow Lady is not Veronica, however, but is actually a
duplicate created by the projector. She has the power to become solid or
intangible at will, and has her own Shadow Ray Projector she can use to
blind villains. The character's costume, and the art style, are strongly
based on Phantom Lady.

Savage Dragon

The Fox Features Syndicate version of the character made a minor
appearance in Savage Dragon #141 as one of the many Golden Age
characters who were released from Solar Man's prison. In the subsequent
clash between Image Comics superheroes and Golden Age superheroes,
Phantom Lady wound up fighting Witchblade until the misunderstanding
between the two groups.

While some Golden Age heroes that appeared in that issue went on to
appear in later issues of Savage Dragon, Phantom Lady wasn't one of
them.

The Golden Age Phantom Lady made her return in Savage Dragon 199 as part
of the Special Operations Strikeforce (S.O.S.) alongside her other
Golden Age contemporaries, and many of Erik Larsen's original
characters, where they battled subterranean demons invading the surface.


In other media

Television

-   The Stormy Knight version of Phantom Lady appears in the Batman:
    The Brave and the Bold episode "Cry Freedom Fighters" voiced by
    Hope Levy. Plastic Man had a crush on her at first glance. This
    version has displayed the powers of intangibility, invisibility and
    self duplication.(through use of technology).

