POWER BOY is the name of three fictional superheroes that appear in
comic books published by .


Fictional character biographies

Zarl Vorne

The first Power Boy's origin paralleled Superboy's. An Atlantean couple
that foresaw Atlantis' destruction used a rocket ship to send their
infant child to the asteroid Juno, where he was raised by a man who
adopted him.

Jedediah Rikane

The second Power Boy comes from the far future. JEDEDIAH RIKANE was a
student in the Legion of Super-Heroes training program at the Legion
Academy. (Note: This Jed Rikane should not be confused with Jediah
Rikane of 's Starman comic.) After being rejected for membership in
the Legion of Super-Heroes, he remained at the Academy and later became
an instructor in the United Planets Militia Academy on Xolnar. He was
killed by a Khundian commando while defending the pluridium mines of
Xolnar.

A version of Jedediah is later seen in a group of Legionnaires pulled
from alternate worlds to fight the Time Trapper in Final Crisis: Legion
of 3 Worlds #5. In the altered continuity that results from that
Crisis, Power Boy reappears as a living member of the Academy, and
begins a relationship with fellow student Gravity Kid in Adventure
Comics #528 (September 2011).

In addition, a memorial statue to a dead Legionnaire named "Power Boy"
appears in the Adult Legion story in Adventure Comics #354 (March
1967), eleven years before Jedediah's debut in Superboy and the Legion
of Super-Heroes #240 (June 1978).

Power Boy

The third Power Boy became a member of the Teen Titans during the
one-year gap after the events of Infinite Crisis. This Power Boy made
his first full appearance in 52 #21 along with Little Barda.

In Supergirl vol. 5, he had a relationship with Supergirl and it was
revealed that he came from Apokolips. Supergirl broke up with him when
he became overly controlling and violently possessive, going so far as
to kick him in the groin and threaten him never to come near her
again.

He next appeared in the Titans East Special where he was killed by an
unrevealed assailant, later shown to be the sons of Trigon.

Because he was born on Apokolips and enhanced by Darkseid, the third
Power Boy has superhuman strength, speed, and durability. He can also
fly and survive in space unaided. He can teleport across great distances
by using his "Father Box", an Apokoliptan version of the Mother Box.

The third Power Boy's costume (and name, of course) are similar to Power
Girl. In a  Nation column appearing in comics dated March 2007,
Eddie Berganza stated the character was intended as a male parody of
some of the clichés associated with female characters.


Other versions

Another version appeared in the pages of the Teen Titans Go!_ comic
series. This Power Boy is revealed as an alternate identity for Robby
Reed, holder of the Hero Dial. In this version, the Dial is unable to
grant superpowers, but unbeknownst to Robby, it steals abilities from
any nearby hero. Power Boy is the result of Robby using Donna Troy's
powers. Power Boy and the other identities are later retired when Robby
gives away his dial and joins Cyborg's New Teen Titans program.

