The PRESENCE is a fictional representation of God, and is a character in
comic books published by . The character debuted in More Fun
Comics #52 (February 1940), and was created by Jerry Siegel and Bernard
Baily.


Publication history

The presence first appears in More Fun Comics #52 as THE VOICE, the
disembodied "Voice of the Presence" who empowers Jim Corrigan as the
Spectre. It was created in this story by Jerry Siegel and Bernard Baily.




The religious cosmology of the  Universe is complex with many
pantheons of deities co-existing alongside each other. It involves
elements from multiple religions, mythologies, and modern created
concepts such as the Endless. It is not always clear how the Abrahamic
God fits into this — for example, one particular Wonder Woman
storyline by Eric Luke featured the Greek Titans fighting
Judeo-Christian angels and Hindu Gods. According to writer Greg Rucka in
an interview about his Final Crisis: Revelations miniseries, "The sort
of unspoken rule in the U is that God sits above all others."

's superhero comics have always drawn upon Judeo-Christian beliefs for
plot elements — the first appearance of "The Voice" was in the 1940
origin of the Spectre — but they have traditionally used surrogate
concepts and names rather than refer to the Judeo-Christian deity
directly. The comics are published under the Comics Code, a set of
ethical guidelines drawn up in the 1950s in reaction to anti-comic book
hysteria. The Code does not explicitly refer to God, but does say that
"ridicule or attack on any religious or racial group is never
permissible." Later revisions of the Code are phrased in terms of
respecting religious beliefs and religious institutions, which may
account for the comics' hesitancy when dealing with God.

The lack of a central doctrine means that multiple "aspects" of God have
been introduced by different writers. Significant examples of God
surrogates include:

The Voice: The disembodied "Voice of the Presence" that spoke to and empowered Jim Corrigan as the Spectre in More Fun Comics #52. This is the most "active" version of God seen in the comic books. At one point, it even answers the Spectre's prayers by resurrecting the murdered Justice Society of America. When the Voice uttered the first word, it created "The Word", and it was already being tracked by Destiny in his book.
The Hand: An image of a hand appearing out of a nebula has been referenced numerous times in different  as a metaphor for the creator or the mystery that exists at the moment of universal creation. It was first seen in Green Lantern vol. 2, #40. In Ganthet's Tale, it was revealed to be an illusion created by the Guardians to prevent investigation into the beginning of the universe. In Crisis on Infinite Earths #10, the Hand was turned into a predestination paradox as the hand of the villainous Anti-Monitor, who tried to rearrange all existence at its starting point, but failed. However, the Hand was later seen reaching down from Heaven to embrace the invading Darkness, and stated to be the Hand of God by Etrigan.
The Source: The universal spirit from Jack Kirby's Fourth World cosmology.
The Presence: The unseen Judeo-Christian deity from Grant Morrison's fictional angel mythology.
Wally: A being claiming to be a manifestation of God who appears in the form of a young boy wearing a baseball hat. He first appears in Peter David's Linda Danvers/Supergirl series. A similar character later appears in the same author's Fallen Angel series.

Many references to similar beings appear to be obvious references to the
Judeo-Christian sect's supreme deity, but they are sometimes revealed to
be other entities in the  Universe. Some events from Judeo-Christian
mythology are assumed to be a part of the fictional timeline of the 
Universe, but they often involve significant artistic license. For
example, it was Eclipso (the original agent of God's wrath) who caused
the mythological Great Flood, and it was his replacement, the Spectre,
who unleashed the ten plagues on Egypt and later parted the Red Sea for
Moses. The  Universe is repeatedly shown to have been created via a
variation of the Big Bang and human evolution through natural selection,
yet paradoxically it also has a Garden of Eden and a version of Lilith,
Adam's first wife (e.g., Peter David's Supergirl series). A hint to
reconcile this occurs in a Sandman issue (reprinted in Fables and
Reflections) in which Cain, Abel, and Eve tell a story to Daniel Hall
(grandson of Carter Hall) about their past, and Abel says, "Oh, this
whuwasn't on Earth, thuh thu--" before being hushed.

According to the series Lucifer, the Presence has vacated his creation,
and his granddaughter Elaine Belloc has taken his place. However, the
series does not address his relationship to the other aspects, and its
events have largely been ignored by subsequent authors.

In another story, the fallen archangel Asmodel invades the Silver City
with an army of Bull Host angels and Neron's demons to claim the Throne
of God, only to be told by Zauriel that the Presence was not, in
actuality, truly sitting upon a throne in the highest Heaven—he was part
of everything and everyone, part of Heaven and Earth and perhaps even
Hell itself, and thus could never be dethroned by any rebel, be they
mortal or angel. Asmodel is stripped of his angelic powers and condemned
to Hell by the Presence to burn for eternity for his treachery.


Vertigo Comics

In Hellblazer #64, it is said (but not confirmed) that Jesus was
conceived from the archangel Gabriel's rape of a woman named Mary ("He'd
committed rape behind a carpenter's in Nazareth, and a cycle of agony
began that ended on a hill above Jerusalem...").

In Neil Gaiman's Sandman mythos, the Presence's angelic servants are
shown as residents of the Silver City, a place that is styled upon the
mythical paradise or "Heaven" of Judeo-Christian mythology; it was
initially referred to as a separate place, but has since been equated
with Heaven. Within the city there are two towers. At the top of the
tallest tower, the Tower of Unendingly High, is the Primum Mobile, the
Throne of Light, where God resides. Angels can only approach the Throne
if they are summoned there. The second, shorter tower contains an
audience chamber where the voice of God, the Logos, can be heard.
Sandman's God is, again, never explicitly referred to by name, and is in
fact rarely mentioned at all, save an exchange between Anubis and an
angel in Season of Mists: "On whose authority?" "Whose do you think?"

The Sandman series weaves an explanation for the many mythical deities
apart from the Presence in the  Universe. They are described as
originating in Dream's realm, born out of people's wishes and fears.
They take their power from prayers sent to them and die when they are no
longer revered and ultimately forgotten.

A significant character in the Sandman series is the fallen angel
Lucifer Morningstar, who rules in Hell. In Season of Mists, he
renounces his throne and leaves Hell. His story, and the quasi-Biblical
references surrounding him, is expanded upon in Mike Carey's Lucifer
series. God, the Presence, in that series is referred to by name as
Yahweh. He is the father of Lucifer and Michael Demiurgos. The
Lucifer series depicts gods from religions other than the three
monotheistic Abrahamic religions, including formless gods dreamt up by
the earliest humans before the advent of language, and even tiny,
short-lived crustacean gods originating from the hopes and fears of
shrimp. Since the end of the series, the Presence has vacated his
creation, and his granddaughter Elaine Belloc has taken his place. How
this affects other aspects of the Presence has yet to be seen.


Powers and abilities

The Presence is the incarnation of the Abrahamic God in the  Universe.
Different stories portray it as being the "creator of the  universe".
Other stories present it as another god who inherited a large portion of
the Godwave, the force that created the gods of the  Universe.

The Presence has the ability to empower various angels, including the
Spectre, Eclipso, and Michael Demiurgos. The Presence could resurrect
the dead. When the demon Asmodel invaded the Silver City in an
attempt to destroy the Presence, he learned that the Presence is
everywhere, and cannot be destroyed.

Although the Presence has stated in Lucifer that he is infinite and
eternal, he also said that he was shaped by external forces, and was
later killed by one of his fallen archangels. As such, per
definition, he has clear limitations, and cannot be an absolute,
omnipotent character.


In other media

Television

-   The "Hand of the Creator", from the Green Lantern comics and the
    Crisis, made an appearance in the Justice League Unlimited episode
    "The Once and Future Thing, Part 2: Time Warped". It is seen toward
    the end of the episode when Batman and Green Lantern chase Chronos
    to the beginning of time. Chronos hoped that by traveling there, he
    could become God.
-   The "Hand of the Creator" also appears in the last episode of the
    second season of Green Lantern: The Animated Series,
    "Dark Matter". After obtaining the device used for time traveling
    from the Anti-Monitor's head, the corrupted A.I. Aya used it to
    travel to the beginning of time in order to manipulate the hand in
    an attempt to make it so that the universe would be created without
    organic life. After badly injuring Razer, Aya returned to her normal
    self and then manipulated the hand again so that the creation of the
    world would proceed as normal.

