QUEEN DESIRA is the name of two fictional characters of royal
background. The first appeared in many Golden Age adventures with Wonder
Woman. She is the queen of Venus, and would often seek help from Wonder
Woman to defend her planet.


Fictional character biography

Nazis led by scientist Hans Goobsten capture the Justice Society during
their monthly meeting by pumping gas into their headquarters, after
Hitler decides they must be eliminated. Using group of newly invented
rockets, the Nazis catapult the JSA into space. Hawkman lands on Saturn,
Sandman on Uranus, Doctor Mid-Nite on Neptune, Starman on Jupiter, Atom
on Mars, Spectre on Pluto, Johnny Thunder on Mercury, and Wonder Woman
on Venus. Each member helps the natives on that world and then returns
to Earth with technology to aid the war effort. On Earth, the reunited
JSA defeats the Nazis who captured them. While on Venus and being
watched by the goddess Aphrodite, who directs her rocket towards Venus,
Wonder Woman first meets DESIRA, THE QUEEN OF VENUS. Together they
battle Solaris and his Meteor Men, who are killing the men of the
planet, and Wonder Woman, after capturing the men, receives the gift of
magnetic hearing, which enables her to read the Queen's mind.(All-Star
Comics #13, All-Star Squadron #57)

[Desira debuts in All-Star Comics #13] Later, Wonder Woman is summoned
by Queen Desira of Venus to help aid the planet Eros. On Eros, women are
sentenced to prison, but one renegade woman, Rebla, has been paroled and
started a war. Wonder Woman, joined by Steve Trevor and Etta Candy help
to fight the war. They convince Rebla to surrender, but she has left
Dominus in charge. He continues fighting until Wonder Woman is able to
stop him. (Sensation Comics #11)

In her next appearance, Wonder Woman uses her earrings with the power of
magnetic hearing to contact Queen Desira of Venus. She learns that a
group of munitions manufacturers are plotting to start a third world
war. Diana Prince is taken prisoner by one of their agents who is posing
as Steve's secretary. Diana manages to get free and stop the
conspirators as Wonder Woman. Wonder Woman turns the plotters over to
Desira for re She sends them to Venus using a teleporter in Paula's lab.

Later, two Holliday Girl pledges accidentally activate the teleporter.
One of the girls is sent to Venus, then releases a conspirator named
Velma. Wonder Woman goes back to Venus to stop an uprising led by Velma.
She then brings the female villain back to Earth.

Velma escapes again, this time with the help of her boyfriend Killer
Dogan. Velma and Dogan raid Paula's lab and send their gang to Venus to
conquer. Wonder Woman and Paula are taken prisoner too. Queen Desira is
forced to surrender, but Velma unleashes a bomb anyway. Wonder Woman
frees herself and with the help of Paula, Queen Desira, and the other
Venusians, Velma is stopped. The conspirators are then placed in
Aphrodite girdles which force them to be submissive. The girdles are
welded on until such time as the crooks prove that they have fully
reformed. (Wonder Woman #12)

In the final appearance of Desira, after helping teach a group of young
girls on Paradise Island, Wonder Woman is enlisted by Aphrodite to help
the women of Eveland. The women live in a hidden land near the South
Pole and are led by EVE, the daughter of Queen Desira of Venus. Eve's
daughter LECTRESS has been kidnapped by the evil Seal Men. Wonder Woman
vows to rescue Eve and several other captives.

Wonder Woman invades Bitterland, the home of the Seal Men and rescues
the women. Lectress then stows away in Wonder Woman's plane and returns
to America. There she joins the Holliday Girls. However, Eve contacts
Wonder Woman when her daughter is found missing.

Wonder Woman returns to Eveland and rescues Eve from Bitterland.
However, Lectress still does not reveal herself and return to her
mother. The Seal Men then threaten to flood Eveland, so Wonder Woman is
forced to surrender. She uses her own captivity to infiltrate Bitterland
and rescue other captives. Finally the Seal Men make peace with Eveland,
and Lectress returns home. (Wonder Woman #13)

Category: aliens Category:Fictional queens Category:
superheroes Category:Wonder Woman characters Category:Extraterrestrial
superheroes Category:Characters created by William Moulton Marston
Category:Female characters in comics
