RAINBOW GIRL (DORI AANDRAISON of the planet Xolnar) is a fictional
character and a  super heroine. She first appeared in
Adventure Comics #309 (June 1963) as a rejected Legion of Super-Heroes
applicant. Her second appearance was 25 years later in Who's Who in
the Legion of Super-Heroes #5 as a socialite. She did not appear
again for nearly 20 years until Action Comics #862 as a member of the
Legion of Substitute Heroes, an organization of teenage heroes that
exists one thousand years in a future universe.


Fictional character biography

Dori Aandraison hoped to become a Legionnaire as a stepping stone
towards a career as a holovid actress. She won a trip to Metropolis
where Legion tryouts were being held by using her powers in the "Miss
Xolnar" contest. Unfortunately, the Legion rejected her. Rather than
returning to Xolnar, she married Irveang Polamar, a member of one of the
oldest and wealthiest families in Metropolis, so she could remain on
Earth. While working on her autobiography, she couldn't shake her
ambition to join the Legion of Super-Heroes so she gave up her life of
power lunches and social teas and instead joined the Legion of
Substitute Heroes, even though she felt they lacked enough publicity to
do her any good.

Dori again works with the Substitute heroes, who become a resistance
cell when Earth becomes a closed off and xenophobic society. Dori and
the Substitutes assist in overthrowing the speciest Justice League and
saving Earth from an invasion of an alien coalition.


Powers and abilities

Rainbow Girl wields the powers of the mysterious emotional spectrum
resulting in unpredictable mood swings. She was able to tap red (anger),
blue (hope) and green (willpower) when she and other substitutes came to
the aid of Superman and the Legion of Super-Heroes in their battle
against the xenophobic Justice League of Earth. During the Blackest
Night event, Geoff John states that she does not fully understand her
powers and uses them more for fun.

In her first appearance, Rainbow Girl was able to create a pheromone
field that surrounds her in coruscating light resembling a rainbow,
giving her an irresistible personality to everyone.

