RAMA is a fictional character based on Hindu Avatar Rama published by 
Comics, and a potential love interest of Wonder Woman. He first appears
in Wonder Woman #148 series 2, (September 1999), and was created by
Eric Luke and Yanick Paquette.


Fictional character biography

Rama-Chandra is the seventh avatar of the Hindu god Vishnu. Although
born a prince on Earth in ancient times, the power of Vishnu flows
through Rama, something which his blue skin tone suggests. In the Indian
epic Ramayana, Rama vanquished the demon king Ravana for abducting
Rama's consort Sita.

He met Wonder Woman after Cronus, a Titan of Myth, and his progeny the
Hecatonchires and Cyclopes ransacked Olympus and attempted to destroy
the Hindu gods. The Hecatonchire known as Oblivion trapped Rama and
Wonder Woman in a dream realm where the two were united in wedded bliss.
The false memories of this illusion were shattered when Diana defeated
Oblivion, but Rama supposedly remained infatuated.

A certain attraction between Rama and Wonder Woman was evident, but
nothing ultimately came of it since the character was not used by
subsequent writers. Rama eventually left for parts unknown after going
berserk and channeling Kali in the battle against a human mutated into
an arachnoid by Doctor Poison's Pandora Virus.


Powers and abilities

-   As an avatar of the Hindu god Vishnu, Rama possesses the power of
    flight, and in battle he wields a sword and the bow of Vayu, which
    shoots flaming arrows (much like those of modern-day Indian heroine
    Maya).
-   When his life is in danger, he is able to enter a Berserker rage
    that heals all his wounds, and cures all toxins, at the expense of
    him destroying his surroundings and killing any nearby humans. While
    berserk, he removes his crown to expose his third eye and grows two
    extra arms, taking on the superficial features of Kali.


Notes

-   Tiger, Judomaster's former sidekick turned evil, claims to be using
    Rama's axe in his guise as the Avatar, but the truth of this has yet
    to be substantiated.
-   Rama, Celsius, Maya, Ravan, Agni, Aruna, Chimera (Sanjeet Bhatia
    from Team Titans Annual #1), Jinx, Tong (Golden Age servant of
    Zatara from Action Comics #1), and Savitar are all Asian Indian
    characters published by .

