THE RAY is the name of four fictional characters, all superheroes in the
 universe.

The first Ray was Lanford "Happy" Terrill, a Quality Comics character.
When  later purchased Quality Comics, Happy Terrill was
retconned as a member of the Freedom Fighters on Earth-X. Following
 altering much of its continuity and history in the storyline Crisis
on Infinite Earths, Happy Terrill was now an inhabitant of the
mainstream  universe and his son Ray Terrill became the second
Ray. Later, the character Stan Silver briefly operated as the third hero
called "the Ray." In the "New 52" relaunch of , where
continuity and history is again being restructured, a new character
called Lucien Gates is introduced as the Ray. Although historically he
is the fourth superhero character to use this name, in The Ray #1
(2012), set in a rebooted continuity, he refers to the origin of Happy
Terrill as a story he had heard as a child.


Fictional character biography

Lanford "Happy" Terrill

Prior to the Crisis on Infinite Earths reboot, Happy Terrill was
originally described as having been exposed to lightning and sunlight at
the same time while ballooning, and gained energy-based super-powers.

His post-Crisis origin is more involved. Before World War II, the
government established a secret group known as RONOL (Research on the
Nature of Light). One RONOL member, Dr. Dayzl, theorized that the light
that originated millennia ago where Earth now orbits would eventually
circumnavigate the universe and return as a dangerous, conscious entity.

The only way to stop the "Light Entity," Dayzl believed, was to talk to
it. Tricking a reporter named Happy Terrill into joining them, Dayzl and
his assistants staged an upper atmosphere ballooning "accident," making
certain Terrill was exposed to a genetic "light bomb." Dayzl calculated
that Terrill's offspring would be a unification of human and light
energy, a potential liaison to the Light Entity. Unaware of the truth,
Terrill used his resulting powers to become the super-heroic Ray.
Simultaneously, RONOL lost government backing due to Dayzl's unorthodox
beliefs. Dayzl's fate remains unknown.

In 1950, after learning the truth, Terrill vowed to quit his Ray
identity. Happy and his first wife, had a child named Joshua. For a time
Joshua accompanied Ray on missions as his sidekick "Spitfire". However
Joshua was prone to violent outbursts, he was place in suspended
animation in the 1950s only to wake up again in the future, still only
10 years old. After a brief association with his old team, the Freedom
Fighters in the 1970s, he had married and settled down. Everything
seemed normal until Happy saw his newborn son glowing with crackling
energy in the hospital nursery. Happy was convinced Dayzl's theories
were correct. He now knew his son would one day have the power to
confront the Light Entity. Not wanting to put his wife through torment,
Happy told her that the baby had died and then set up his son with a
foster father (Happy's brother Thomas).

In the 2008 Freedom Fighters series, Terrill is asked by Uncle Sam to
ask Neon the Unknown for help. When Neon, completely detached from
humanity, refuses, Terrill drinks from the waters of his oasis, becoming
a new Neon the Unknown, known simply as "Neon".

Ray Terrill

Ray Terrill was told he was hyper-sensitive to light and exposure to
sunlight would kill him. Privately tutored in his window-darkened home,
Ray's most earnest wish was for normalcy. The media called him Night
Boy. His only friend during his formative years was his neighbor,
Jennifer Jurden. At eighteen, by his supposed father's deathbed, Ray
learned his life was a lie. He was not allergic to light, nor did he
have to live in darkness. Most disturbing of all, he discovered his true
father was the 1940s war-time super-hero, the Golden Age Ray.

Stan Silver

[Stan Silver as the Ray. Art by Daniel Acuña.]

The reformed Freedom Fighters have a member called the Ray, who has
similar powers to the Terrills. The new Ray is STAN SILVER. He was
described by Justin Gray as being "capable of turning his body into a
living laser light" and "the playboy of the group". Stan likes to
show off in front of the media.

Working as a foreign correspondent for the Washington Sun, Silver was
exposed to upper atmosphere radiation while covering a story, thus
gaining power over various forms of light. Recruited by S.H.A.D.E.,
Silver begins using his powers in the service of his government. He is,
however, something of a womanizing egomaniac in his civilian persona.
Silver later defects from S.H.A.D.E. to join Uncle Sam's new group of
Freedom Fighters.

In Uncle Sam and Freedom Fighters # 6, Silver reveals that he is a
double agent still loyal to S.H.A.D.E. He turns on his teammates and
kills the Invisible Hood. Immediately after, the colors of his "costume"
were inverted, becoming blue instead of yellow.

In Uncle Sam and Freedom Fighters # 7, he battles his former teammates
and is defeated by Ray Terrill, and is sent back to Father Time. He is
later seen outside the White House with S.H.A.D.E.'s other
super-soldiers, who join Father Time in the timestream after the battle
ends.

Lucien Gates

On September 16, 2011,  announced a new mini-series titled "The
Ray" to be written by Palmiotti and Gray with art duties by Jamal Igle
as part of their "NEW 52" relaunch. It did not feature any of the
previous incarnations of The Ray but instead centered around a new
character by the name of Lucien Gates. Remarks made by Lucien
referencing Lanford's origin and his use of the Ray title in his debut
issue indicate that he is not the first hero to be called The Ray as far
as the newly rebooted  universe is concerned. The mini-series debuted
in December 2011.

Lucien Gates is a Korean-American San Diego County Lifeguard who, while
on duty was caught in the path of a particle beam. The beam,
accidentally fired from a solar energy cannon commissioned by an unnamed
government agency, mutated a number of living organisms before striking
Gates. The resulting energy transforms him into an energy manipulator,
able to fly at superhuman speed, fire various energy beams and create
illusions. Gates is also a Korean-American adoptee.

Distinctively, Gates cannot direct his flight as is common for airborne
superheroes, instead travelling in a straight line as a literal ray of
light. To change direction he must strike a reflective surface, though
it does not appear he is bound by the normal mechanics of specular
reflection and can "reflect" at any angle (perhaps more akin to a
swimmer kicking off from the edge of a pool than true reflection). When
necessary, he can reduce his speed and even hover.


Powers and abilities

-   All versions of the Ray can absorb, store and process pure light and
    use the energy to fly and create dazzlingly strong and powerful
    bursts of light. In his Golden Age appearances, Happy Terrill was
    able to manipulate other forms of energy such as electricity
    and magnetism.
-   The Terrills were also capable of manipulating and controlling light
    externally to create illusions and even solid light constructs, as
    well as render themselves invisible.
-   Later in Happy's career (while mentoring/antagonising his son), he
    was shown to have a greater mastery of his abilities. For example,
    by using "solid light vibrations," essentially resonating the
    target's inner ear, he was able to approximate
    telepathic communication.
-   Ray Terrill is capable of converting his body completely into
    light energy. No physical harm can come to him in this form. (Main
    article)
-   Stan Silver's full abilities and powers are largely undocumented. As
    noted above, he is apparently "capable of turning his body into a
    living laser light."
-   Lucien Gates can not become immaterial, rather the light forms a
    protective armor. In order to fly, Gates bounces off of
    reflective surfaces. His thought processes calculate hundreds of
    options, allowing him to redirect his path at lightspeed.


Other versions

-   In the final issue of 52, a new Multiverse is revealed, originally
    consisting of 52 identical realities. Among the parallel realities
    shown is one designated "Earth-10". As a result of Mister Mind
    "eating" aspects of this reality, it takes on visual aspects similar
    to the pre-Crisis Earth-X, including the Quality characters. The
    names of the characters and the team are not mentioned in the panel
    in which they appear, but a character visually similar to the
    "Happy" Terrill Ray appears.

 Based on comments by Grant Morrison, this alternate universe is not the
pre-Crisis Earth-X.

-   The 2007 series Countdown: Arena introduces several alternate
    versions of the Ray. On Earth-6, the former Atom (Ray Palmer) has
    become his world's Ray, a Nazi Ray exists on "Earth-10" and his
    closest Earth-50 parallel is prominent Wildstorm Universe character
    Apollo, a Superman pastiche who debuted in the early 1990s. It is
    strange to note that on Earth-10, Ray's Freedom Fighters are
    supposed to be the opposition of the fascist JL-Axis (the fascist
    Ray's costume matches Ray Terril's new uniform, so the heroic Ray on
    the Freedom Fighters could be his father, Happy), and Apollo is more
    commonly viewed as a Superman parallel (he is placed with the Rays
    apparently due to his light-based powers).
-   A version of the Ray appears in the book Kingdom Come as one of
    the heroes loyal to Superman. He is also mentioned in being
    instrumental in stripping the radiation out of the Kansas soil both
    for the construction of the Gulag and Superman's reclamation of the
    land at the end of the story. It is not specified which incarnation
    of the Ray this is, although in promo art he is referred to as
    Ray II. In the final issue of 52, the setting of Kingdom Come
    was designated Earth-22 in the new Multiverse.


In other media

Television

-   The Ray makes several background appearances in the Justice League
    Unlimited animated series, although he is not given any lines. The
    Justice League Unlimited comic book established in #17 that this
    was Ray Terrill, and included Happy as a member of the
    Freedom Fighters.
-   The Lanford Terrill version of Ray appears in the Batman: The Brave
    and the Bold episode "Cry Freedom Fighters" voiced by Tom Kenny.

Web series

-   The Ray is a background student at Super Hero High in the web series
     Super Hero Girls.

