RED TORNADO is a fictional superhero in the  universe. The
character first appeared in Justice League of America #64 (August
1968), and was created by writer Gardner Fox and artist Dick Dillin.
Originally depicted as a comical superheroine with the secret identity
of Ma Hunkel, the character was replaced with an android with the
ability to generate tornado-speed winds (enabling him to fly and perform
other wind-related feats). Originally, the character was a member of the
fictional Justice Society of America, but quickly moved to another
dimension and joined the fictional Justice League of America. It became
a trope for the Red Tornado's body to be heavily damaged or destroyed.
The character was retconned in 1981 so that an older alien supervillain,
the Tornado Champion, inhabits the android body (which is no longer
depicted as sentient). In a second retcon in 1984, the Tornado Champion
never inhabited the android body; instead, an air elemental took over
the robot form. A 2011 reboot of the  "universe", known as "The
New 52", eliminated the Red Tornado from , although various
characters have hinted at his existence.


Silver Age Red Tornado

Ulthoon, the Tornado Tyrant, and the Tornado Champion

In the fictional character's biography, the Red Tornado was formed
through the merger of two different entities: an android body created by
supervillain T. O. Morrow and the TORNADO CHAMPION from the Earth-One
planet Rann. The Tornado Champion itself was the morally good part of a
sentient tornado on the fictional alien world of Rann. Known as ULTHOON,
THE TORNADO TYRANT OF RANN, this being battled the hero Adam Strange,
who defeated it. The defeated Tyrant "contemplated the nature of good
and evil and decided that good was the superior force". Ulthoon is
aware of Strange's adventure with the Justice League of America (JLA),
and in a 1963 story decides to move to an unpopulated planet where it
replicates Earth in every detail. Ulthoon takes on the form of the
Justice League. Ulthoon's evil side, later known as the TORNADO TYRANT,
emerged and defeated Ulthoon/Justice League. Determined to understand
its failure, the Tornado Champion went to Earth, where the Tornado
Tyrant emerged again and battled the real Justice League. The League is
defeated, but in a second attack banishes the Tornado Tyrant to an
"anti-matter universe" where they believe it is destroy. The Tornado
Champion ends his experiment with a duplicate Earth and JLA, and decides
to continue being a hero (since good always defeats evil). This story
is somewhat retconned in Justice League of America Vol. 1 #193. There,
the Tornado Champion tells the JLA member Firestorm that it and it alone
traveled to Earth in 1963 to "recreate" its failed battle against the
Tornado Tyrant. Having learned how to defeat its evil half, it returned
to the replicate Earth, defeated its evil half, and banished it
"forever".

In the Red Tornado's fictional biography, the next step in its evolution
came in summer of 1968, although in chronologically this story was not
published until 1981. In this story, the Tornado Champion (seeking an
Earth where no one would recognize him) goes to the alternate dimension
known in the  universe as Earth-Two. It encounters T.O. Morrow,
a supervillain from Earth-One who is creating an android to use against
the Justice Society of America (JSA). Morrow, attempting to dupe the
JSA, gives the android Ma Hunkel's memories. The Tornado Champion
entered the android's body, but in doing so caused a short circuit in
Morrow's computer which loses its memory in the process.

Justice Society of America adventures

In 1968, according to the character's fiction biography, the Red Tornado
shows up at the JSA's headquarters on Earth-Two claiming to be the
"original" Red Tornado (Ma Hunkel). The JSA is suspicious, but Red
Tornado has all of Hunkel's memories. Morrow has other robots attack a
museum and vaporize relics. The JSA responds. Red Tornado, programmed to
appear inept (and thus keep the JSA from apprehending his true nature),
manages to expose all the JSA members to the dust created by the
vaporization. All but one of them falls into a coma. Programmed to
return to Morrow's lair, Red Tornado does so. Morrow's computer predicts
that keeping the Red Tornado active will allow Morrow to continue to be
successful at crime. JSA member Doctor Fate, who escaped his coma,
gathers the remaining JSA members and manages to release the others from
their comas. Once more, Red Tornado betrays his fellow JSAers by telling
them to use Morrow's energy weapons. The devices are rigged to explode
and they put the JSA and Red Tornado into comas again. Morrow returns to
Earth-One to attack the Justice League. Morrow defeats and puts the
JLA into comas twice, once by using energy duplicates and a second time
by using energy duplicates of their most deadly enemies. Red Tornado,
who was not incapacitated by the energy backfire on Earth-Two, travels
to Earth-One and revives the JLA members. The JLA easily captures
Morrow. Red Tornado returns to Earth-Two and revives the JSA. The JSA
admits Red Tornado as a full member in gratitude.

With no Justice Society comic book being printed at the time, Two Red
Tornado's appearances were limited to JSA/JLA team-ups. These were
popular stories, and  usually printed one a year. Red Tornado
appeared again in 1969, this time traveling alone Earth-One to carry a
warning. The JLA ignores him as they battle a gang and try to save
Hawkman, who has been turned into a pillar of salt. As the JLA battles
the demons responsible, Red Tornado (investigating where they came from)
unleashes a gas which restores Hawkman. Red Tornado then delivers
his message: Aquarius, a "living star", has wiped out the Earth-Two
universe. Doctor Fate has managed to protect the JSA and Black Canary's
husband, police detective Larry Lance, inside a magic bubble, but this
was two weeks ago. The JLA rush into the Earth-Two universe, finding
themselves in Doctor Fate's bubble. Aquarius forces the mind-controlled
JSA to do battle against the JLA, but his hold over the heroes is broken
when Larry Lance sacrifices himself to save Black Canary. The JLA tricks
Aquarius into entering an antimatter universe, where he is
destroyed.

Red Tornado's feelings of insecurity and his sense that he has never
been completely accepted by the JSA worsen in the subsequent JLA/JSA
team-up. Red Tornado is easily captured by the alien known as Creator².
Creator² wants to merge Earth-One and Earth-Two into a paradise of his
own making, and uses Red Tornado (who has been in both dimensions) as
the "anchor" for this effort. Creator²'s servants incapacitate several
JSA members, but the dimensional merging is already at play and several
JLA members are also rendered comatose. The Earth-One Green Lantern and
the Atom realize Red Tornado is in the clutches of Creator². With the
help of Spectre (who is not a JSA member), Doctor Fate, Johnny Thunder,
and Thunderbolt free Red Tornado and end the threat—although Spectre is
presumed dead.

Red Tornado has his final mission with the JSA in 1972. The JLA is being
visited by the heroes Elongated Man, Metamorpho, Zatanna, and Wonder
Woman when the JSA calls for help. The JLA discovers that the villain
known as Nebula Man has created a planet-sized magic metal fist which is
crushing Earth-Two. The heroes contact Oracle, a super-being with vast
knowledge, who tell them that only the Seven Soldiers of Victory (SSV)
have the power to defeat Nebula Man. But the SSV were scattered through
time by Nebula Man, and now the JSA and JLA begin to rescue them.
Readers discover that an old SSV opponent, Iron Hand (also known as The
Hand), is behind Nebula Man's attack. The rescue of the time-lost SSV
members begins. When the last of the Seven Soldiers are retrieved,
the JSA and JLA learn that Wing, sidekick to the Crimson Avenger, died
saving the SSV from Nebula Man by using a secret weapon. JLA's Wonder
Woman defeats Iron Hand, but his device controlling Nebula Man is
smashed and now not even he can stop Earth-Two's destruction. After the
SSV recreate their weapon, Red Tornado takes the device into orbit,
where it detonates and he is killed.

Early Justice League of America adventures

Red Tornado makes his first appearance on Earth-One in April 1973, a
year after the character's apparent death. Elongated Man is made a JLA
member, and leads the JLA in investigating a group of pliable,
putty-like men who are assembling a super-weapon. Various JLA members
are saved by a mysterious individual, who later turns out to be Red
Tornado. Readers would have to wait three months to learn that Red
Tornado did not die in the explosion, but instead was hurled into the
Earth-One dimension. His face was damaged, and his memory temporarily
lost. He believes a blind hermit remolded his face (which penciller Dick
Dillin made more human-like), and after some months regained his
memories. He's since discovered he cannot return to the Earth-Two
universe. Unfortunately, the "blind hermit" turns out to be T.O. Morrow,
who has implanted a device inside Red Tornado that will kill the JLA
when Red Tornado uses his JLA signal device for the first time. The JLA
uncovers the plot, and deactivates the device. Morrow, who can only
exist if Red Tornado does not, now fades away. Red Tornado attempts
to return to Earth-Two by stowing away in the JLA's new Trans-matter
Cube (which allows interdimensional travel), but his presence causes the
JLA and JSA to Earth X—a world when Nazi Germany won World War II. The
two super-hero teams meet a third fictional group of heroes, the Freedom
Fighters. Learning that Nazi Germany rules the world using mind-control
devices, they destroy one of them. Three more devices are located
and destroyed, but a fourth device exists and cannot be located. As the
JSA and JLA come under Nazi control and begin to attack the Freedom
Fighters, Red Tornado (immune to the device's effects) locates and
destroys the fourth device.

Over the next several years, the Red Tornado character has many
adventures with the Justice League. Many of these end with him being
heavily damaged or even destroyed. In February 1974, Red Tornado
accidentally frees the alien supervillain Eclipso from imprisonment
inside the human being Bruce Gordon, and is damaged in the resulting
explosion. In the story "The Man Who Murdered Santa Claus!", the
JLA's old nemesis The Key appears, threatening to destroy St. Louis,
Missouri. The JLA must run a gauntlet of traps to reach his bomb, and
Red Tornado is apparently killed in one of these snares. In fact, the
hero known as Phantom Stranger has saved him. As a Christmas gift, the
JLA gives Red Tornado a new and more colorful costume. Red Tornado
is again severely damaged when the aliens known as Adaptoids mistake the
JLA for tyrants rather than heroes.

Red Tornado is apparently killed again in 1976. The alien super-being
known as Nekron causes the JLA to suffer an extreme fear of death and
disband. The then threatens to destroy Midway City with a solar
flare. Nekron demands that Hawkman attempt to stop the flare, as Hawkman
is one of the weakest JLA members. Red Tornado disguises himself as
Hawkman and is destroyed stopping the flare—giving the real Hawkman and
Wonder Woman (who is immune to Nekron's fear-inducing power) time to
evacuate the city. Nekron is defeated with an overdose of intense
fear.

On Earth-One, Red Tornado slowly becomes more human-like. He develops
more of a distinct personality, and adopts the name JOHN SMITH. He takes
a job teaching school, where he meets and develops affection for
employment counselor Kathy Sutton.

The Construct

A new Justice League villain composed of radio and other electromagnetic
waves, Construct, appeared in the Justice League of America comic book
in 1977. At the beginning of the first story involving the Construct, he
is apparently defeated by the Atom. The Construct remains alive,
however, takes up residence in the Injustice Gang Satellite. Construct
reforms the Injustice Gang, but the JLA defeats them (and destroys the
satellite), although the JLA does not realize that Construct was
controlling the supevillains.

Without warning, Red Tornado reappears at the end of Justice League of
America #145, apparently brought back to life (along with Hawkman and
Superman) by the death of the wizard, Count Crystal. When tested by
Superman, however, the Red Tornado attacks his comrades. When the
Injustice Gang satellite blew up, Construct fled into the nearest
android body—which happened to be the remains of Red Tornado, in orbit.
Defeated by Hawkman and Hakwgirl, Construct leaves the Red Tornado's
body. Reassembled, Red Tornado comes to life again and rejoins the
Justice League. Although most members of the JLA believe he's still
under Construct's control, Black Canary, Hawkgirl, and Wonder Woman
support him. Red Tornado confronts the Construct, and while the two are
locked in a battle of wills, Wonder Woman activates Amazonian technology
that dispeses and disrupts Construct.

The creation of the Construct character proved important in the future
history of Red Tornado. For a time, the Construct becomes one of the
nemesis of the android, and the Construct will play a major role in
a 2005 story by helping the Justice League rout the Weaponers of Qward,
the Earth-devouring Void Hound, and the Crime Syndicate of America.
and a portion of the Construct (merged with the Void Hound) helped save
the antihero Enigma. This also helped to reincarnate Engima's daughter,
and aid Engima in fighting the Crime Syndicate.

Later Justice League adventures

Red Tornado next helps the JLA defeat a new foe, the Star-Tsar. The
former Manhunter Mark Shaw has adopted a new heroic identity, the
pirate-themed Privateer. Doctor Light defeats the JLA, but another
villain (Star-Tsar) frees the League as he perceives Light to be a
competitor. Snapper Carr is revealed to be the Star-Tsar, and the
JLA's old foe The Key is found to be backing him. The Key, too, is
defeated, but is shown to now have a physical deformity that eliminates
him as the Star-Tsar. Red Tornado, however, uses his robotic memory to
reveal that Shaw went missing during crucial moments in the
adventure—and Shaw is unmasked as the Star-Tsar.

Red Tornado meets his future adopted daughter, Traya, in Justice League
of America Vol. 1, #152 (March 1978) after she finds a powerful alien
orb and gains super-powers, and he and Phantom Stranger save the JLA
from Oceanic gods in Justice League of America Vol. 1, #157 (August
1978). Red Tornado assists new JLA member Zatanna in locating her
mother, Sindella, in the multi-issue "Homo magi" storyline in 1979,
during which time he is badly injured. Still recovering, he is
attacked by the Secret Society of Super-Villains and defeated twice—once
by the villains, and again by the villains (whose minds are actually
those of other JLA members). He was put on trial before the World
Court for various violations of human rights by the superhero Ultraa,
who was being manipulated by the alien known as the Over-Complex.
(Ultraa ended the trial once he realized he was being duped.)

In  Presents Vol. 1, #7 (March 1979), Red Tornado saves the
world from the Weaponers of Qward. The Qwardians capture Superman and
take him to Qward, where they intend to use his Kryptonian body as a
lens to concentrate Q-rays and immobilize everyone on Earth. They then
intend to invade the planet. The process begins, but Red Tornado is
immune due to his android nature. Tracing the Q-rays to their source in
the Qward dimension, Red Tornado manages to free Superman by
concentrating too much Q-energy through the Man of Steel's body. The
rift between the two dimensions closes.

Despite his success in saving the Earth, Red Tornado resigns from the
League in Justice League of America Vol. 1, #175 (February 1980) after
concluding that he is unreliable in combat. He becomes Traya's foster
father, and resumes his relationship with Kathy Sutton. But long-time
JLA foe Doctor Destiny escapes from prison and causes havoc by causing
people's nightmares to materialize, Red Tornado not only successfully
battles his own dream-demon but stops the villain. His confidence
restored, he rejoins the League (who defeat Doctor Destiny yet
again). He later is one of two League members who discover that the
deadly Starro has returned. Although Starro is using small duplicates of
himself to take over the minds of millions of people in New York
City—including those of most of the Justice League—Red Tornado's android
mind is not affected and he is able to cause a city-wide blackout that
deprives Starro of the energy source needed to dominate so many
people.

Revelation of the Tornado Champion

In Justice League of America Vol. 1, #192 (July 1981) a Red Tornado
attacks his fellow Leaguers without warning, severely injuring several
of them before being destroyed. A second Red Tornado attacks as well,
and is destroyed. The androids were duplicates created by T.O. Morrow,
back from wherever he disappeared to in JLA #106. Morrow used a program
to summon the real Red Tornado. Readers discover that Morrow developed a
device to steal technology from the future, which included a
super-computer that taught him how to build a "humaniztron" device to
make Red Tornado sentient and thus capable of destroying the JSA. The
computer did not predict that Red Tornado would become independent,
however, and Morrow was defeated. Morrow fled to Earth-One, where the
super-computer predicted he would "fade away" after 28 days if the
Justice League was not destroyed. When the damaged Red Tornado also
crossed dimensions and fell to earth near Morrow's hideout, he tried
again to program it to destroy the JLA and failed.

Morrow reveals that the super-computer had wrongfully predicted his
death. When Morrow didn't die at the end of the 28-day period, the
computer used future technology to try to dematerialize him. But faulty
programming actually led to Morrow being divided into two beings. One
(the "original" Morrow) materialized on an alien world, here he
discovered a powerful sceptre-like device that allowed him to control
the planet's ecosystem. He kidnapped Atom's wife, Jean Loring; the
Flash's wife, Iris West Allen; and Linda Danvers (Supergirl) and
transported them to this world, hoping to lure the Atom and the Flash
there. Although Morrow was able to defeat Atom and Flash, he hadn't
counted on Supergirl's presence, and was defeated.

The other copy of T.O. Morrow stayed on Earth. This version, which
Morrow believed to be a future version of himself (and therefore was
known as "Future Man"), was heavily mutated. He attempted to switch
minds and take over the Red Tornado body. Although successful, Red
Tornado was able to reverse the switch and "Future Man" died of his
mutations.

After "Future Man's" death, the "original" Morrow escaped from prison,
consulted his super-computer, and learned how he'd been split in two.
With the computer's help, he also attempted to determine what "flaw" had
allowed Red Tornado to become independent. Morrow concluded some
"outside force" was responsible.

In Justice League of America Vol. 1, #193 (August 1981), Aquaman
discovers Morrow's hideout and is nearly killed when Morrow uses his
alien sceptre on him. Morrow attempts to dissect Red Tornado to discover
the "outside influence", and releases Tornado Champion/Tornado Tyrant
within the android shell. Tornado Tyrant defeats the JLA, except for
Firestorm. The Tornado Champion informs Firestorm about how he and his
alter-ego became fused with the Red Tornado android, and Firestorm
manages to place both sentient beings back into the android body. Red
Tornado wakes, and only Firestorm is aware of the true nature of the
windy wonder. However, Red Tornado's dual-origin was not fully
revealed until Morrow had re-captured him in order to figure out how he
became sentient. When Morrow opens up Red Tornado, both the Tornado
Champion and the Tornado Tyrant come out of the body; the Tyrant had
never truly left the Champion. After a battle with the JLA, Red Tornado
was reassembled by Firestorm, with both the Tyrant and the Champion
being returned to the android and with both their memories being
erased.

Red Tornado's friendship with Firestorm deepens in Fury of Firestorm
#4 (September 1982). The super-villain Killer Frost freezes New York
City's eight million people. Her hold on sanity weak, she demands to be
queen of New York, and asks that her consort be movie star Curt Holland.
The JLA arrives to help, but Firestorm fights them off. Heading to the
JLA Satellite, Firestorm reveals his twin secret identities as teenager
Ronnie Raymond and middle-aged physicist Martin Stein. While Stein works
on a device to unfreeze the people of New York City, Red Tornado takes
Ronnie to Hollywood where Holland rebuffs them. Later, Firestorm brings
Holland to Killer Frost in New York. But it is Red Tornado in disguise,
the one member of the JLA immune to her touch (which can instantaneously
freeze anyone). Red Tornado uses the freezing unit hidden in his chest
to immobilize Killer Frost, and then the two work together to unfreeze
the people of the city.

Final years

Red Tornado discovers where the body of Larry Lance has been taken in
Justice League of America Vol. 1, #219 (October 1983) and Justice
League of America Vol. 1, #220 (November 1983), as well as the secret
origin of the Black Canary. Shortly thereafter, he discovers he is one
of the few heroes who can defeat the power-mimicking super-villain
Paragon in Justice League of America Vol. 1, #224 (March 1984).

In the aftermath of the Mars/Earth War Aquaman disbands the Justice
League. He reforms it, but only includes members who are willing to
devote themselves full-time to JLA business. Red Tornado is not among
these heroes, and is not a member of the reformed League.

Just prior to the 1985-1986 multi-title cross-over storyline "Crisis on
Infinite Earths", the Red Tornado's last adventure as John Smith was
recorded. The Construct later faced the Red Tornado in his first
mini-series. In this limited series, the Construct takes over the entire
world, brainwashing everyone with energy emissions from most electronic
objects. The Red Tornado tries to resist as much as he can, given that
he cannot be brainwashed. Eventually, Red Tornado battles Construct in a
virtual world composed of electromagnetic particles, and defeats
him.

Crisis on Infinite Earths

Red Tornado makes his final appearances in his original form largely in
the Crisis on Infinite Earths comic book miniseries. As has long been
attested in books published by , the multiverse was created
when an alien scientist named Krona attempted to meddle with the
creation of the universe. An embodiment of the power of the Earth-One
universe, the nearly all-powerful Monitor, discovered that an antimatter
version, the Anti-Monitor, lived in the Qward universe. When a scientist
named Kell Mossa (later known as Pariah) destroyed his dimension, the
Anti-Monitor became more powerful than the Monitor—which led the Monitor
to begin assembling his galaxy's greatest heroes and villains to aid his
cause. But the Monitor's assistant, Harbinger, has been possessed by
one of the Anti-Monitor's shadow demons, and she kills the Monitor even
as groups of heroes fan out throughout the universe and time to turn on
devices ("cosmic tuning forks") the Monitor has placed to stop the
advancing antimatter wave destroying the multiverse.

Red Tornado makes his first appearance in Crisis on Infinite Earths #4
(July 1985). The Psycho-Pirate has been whisked away from his mission to
protect a cosmis tuning fork, and now Red Tornado and the Flash are
similarly teleported away. The Anti-Monitor has kidnapped them, and now
refashions Red Tornado's body into a powerful weapon. The Anti-Monitor
tells the Red Tornado that he is more than a machine, even more than a
man (a comment Red Tornado fails to understand). Under the
Anti-Monitor's control, he wreaks destruction on a massive scale across
Earth-One and Earth-Two (which have been temporarily saved from
destruction) before being torn apart by numerous heroes. Supergirl
gravely injures the Anti-Monitor and destroys the machine which was
tearing the remaining universes apart. In saving the universe, she
dies. Red Tornado again appears in Crisis on Infinite Earths #8
(November 1985). Firestorm, the Atom, and the hero known as Blue Devil
take the remains of the Red Tornado to the Justice League satellite.
They bring T.O. Morrow to the satellite to repair him. But a bomb inside
the Red Tornado goes off, destroying the satellite.

Red Tornado, however, is still alive inside the wreckage of the
satellite. In Justice League of America Annual Vol. 1, #3 (August
1985), he links with the still-functioning JLA computer to learn more
about himself. A bolt of energy sends the wreckage down to Earth, where
the Martian Manhunter finds Red Tornado's head. Red Tornado, however,
sends his consciousness into a nearby S.T.A.R. Labs weather-control
satellite. Gathering energy to give himself physical form, he also uses
the satellites to wreak havoc on Earth. The JLA destroys the satellites
one by one, eventually freeing the now-corporeal Tornado Champion. Red
Tornado has tried contacting Kathy Sutton via several electronic
devices. The JLA takes her to the Tornado Champion, who declares he now
has the power to remake worlds. Kathy convinces him that he needs to be
more human in order to be accepted. He seems to accept Kathy's
reasoning, but a brief attack by Superman angers him and he heads off
into the universe.

The Crisis on Infinite Earths ends when the Spectre confronts the
Anti-Monitor at the moment when Krona creates the multiverse. The
villainous god Darkseid and the Earth-Two Superman then destroy the
weakened Anti-Monitor.


Post-Crisis Red Tornado

Air Elemental

The Crisis on Infinite Earths changed history. Although the Red
Tornado's android origin remained almost the same, he was never the
Tornado Champion. Instead, he was an Air Elemental, created by Maya (the
spirit of the Earth) to protect the environment. Like other elementals
such as Swamp Thing, this spirit needed to have a human host before
becoming manifest. The host was meant to be Professor Ivo's infant son,
but the boy died at a young age. So the elemental went into an android
body that Professor Ivo created.

The Elemental War

Air pollution has an adverse effect on the Red Tornado/Tornado Champion,
driving him half-mad and into conflict alongside Naiad against Firestorm
and the Swamp Thing in The Elemental War. Eventually, Firestorm calms
both the Red Tornado and Naiad, and manufactures a new body shell for
the Red Tornado. This new body is imperfect, as the Red Tornado begins
to experience serious malfunctions. His humanity is almost lost, and his
physical appearance becomes more and more damaged, dirty, and clearly
not right. During a period of near-total malfunction, Red Tornado is a
member of the Leymen. During this period, he experiences odd jerks and
spasms as he moves, and sounds from malfunctioning gears and mechanisms
clanging together come from within the android's body. He also only
speaks in a halting, emotionless, mechanical monotone. During the course
of his association with the Leymen, the original Red Tornado personality
begins to re-emerge, and slowly, his emotions and humanity as well.

Young Justice

Red Tornado spends some time silent and unmoving in the old, empty JLA
headquarters located in Happy Harbor, Rhode Island, feeling that he had
become isolated from humanity. However, when the three young heroes,
Robin, Superboy and Impulse spend a sleepover there, Impulse's behavior
annoys Red Tornado to such an extent he voluntarily reactivates himself,
realising from his feelings of annoyance towards the group that he is
not as removed from humanity as he previously thought.

Upon restoring his abilities to move properly and communicate, the Red
Tornado re-establishes his connections with the Justice League and the
regular super hero community. He serves as an advisor for Young Justice,
assisting them on their missions if the situation requires it, and as an
auxiliary member of the JLA. During this period, he attempts to renew
his relationship with his wife, Kathy Sutton. While he does not succeed
in fully reuniting with Kathy, their adopted daughter, Traya, has
readily accepts the Red Tornado into her life, regardless of his
appearance or state of repair. Because of Traya's attachment for the Red
Tornado, Kathy allows Red Tornado regular visitations and contact. He
does not, however, return to his John Smith identity, instead he acts as
Traya's adoptive father in his superheroic/robotic identity. During this
time, he also plays an important role in Superman's defeat of Brainiac
13; when Brainiac takes control of the robotic heroes until they were
shut down by an EM-pulse generated by Lex Luthor in a stolen Kryptonian
battlesuit, Kelex, Superman's fortress robot, reactivates Red Tornado so
that they could use him to break Brainiac 13 down into his component
nanobots and trap him inside Luthor's battlesuit.

Crisis of Conscience

In the events following 's Crisis of Conscience mini-series, Red
Tornado is attacked by the surviving members of the original Secret
Society of Super-villains. His body is completely destroyed before the
JLA arrive. Batman takes the remains to the Batcave and builds an
upgraded android body. When the League is attacked by Despero, Red
Tornado is essential to his defeat, as he is immune to Despero's
telepathy and mind control.

Infinite Crisis and 52

Red Tornado is one of the heroes recruited by Donna Troy to fight
against the menace in space during Infinite Crisis. According to a
conversation between Doc Magnus and his creator T.O. Morrow in 52, the
Red Tornado sacrifices himself during the Crisis (in fact he is utterly
destroyed, hit by a stray Zeta beam signal). Morrow's response to this
news is to question how many times the Tornado has actually died,
clearly indicating he expects the Red Tornado to return to active status
eventually. Morrow also alludes to another android he created, called
the Red Inferno. No other data is given on this possible sibling to the
Red Tornado.

During the fifth week of the 52 event, after the other heroes are
beamed back down to Earth at Uluru, the Tornado's speaker embedded in
Mal Duncan's chest replays a warning message for his comrades, _"It's
coming! 52! 52!"_, implying that shortly before his destruction he may
have seen something pivotal to the  Universe future, the rebirth of
the Multiverse.

Twelve weeks later, in 52 Week 17, it is revealed that the Red
Tornado, now largely in pieces, is beamed back down to the Earth with
the other heroes, but is apparently missed by the search team. Conscious
but unable to say anything other than "52," the Tornado is discovered by
a group of young Aborigines in the Australian outback. At the end of
52 Week 21, he is shown to being reassembled with car parts by an
Australian mechanic. Malfunctioning, but at least able to access his
aereokinetic powers, in 52 Week 28, he is set against a group of
Intergang enforcers evicting a tribe of Aborigines from their shanty
town. Defeated, he is disassembled and trashed, and his head used in a
contemporary art sculpture. T.O. Morrow manages to buy his head back,
hoping to discover his secrets. As T.O. Morrow is used as bait to trap
Mr. Mind, Red Tornado's head falls into Rip Hunter's hands, who combines
his head with his own Time Bubble to navigate safely into the restored
universe.

One Year Later

After the events in 's One Year Later story-line, Red Tornado's
android body is fully repaired. Kathy Sutton spends some time with it,
talking with the heroine Platinum and thinking how she has done this
seven times before, waiting for John to come back to his body.
However, his soul chose to enter a human body offered by Felix Faust
posing as Deadman. When the Justice League of America call him back as a
member, John Smith returns as a human being, and shows the same wind
powers of his robotic form, but lacks the stamina and resilience of his
android body.

His android body is stolen from Will Magnus' lab by Dr. Impossible.
Magnus notifies Red Tornado, who then leaves to find his stolen android
body. Arsenal (who later took the title Red Arrow), Black Canary and
Green Lantern join the search using a beacon planted by Will Magnus
inside Red Tornado's android body. They track the signal to a remote
mountain base and confront Professor Ivo who has regained his human
appearance. Ivo then releases a swarm of various activated Tornado
Androids to assault the heroes. After the androids are defeated, and Red
Tornado arrives, it is revealed that this has been orchestrated by a
revived and intelligent Solomon Grundy.

Solomon Grundy confesses that he masterminded the plan that put the
former android in a human shell meant to cripple him, and slowly rob Red
Tornado of his health and aereokinesis, although a mishap let Tornado
keep his powers even in his weakened form. Grundy also has the Red
Tornado Android body infused with a multitude of super powered objects,
along with one of Ivo’s Amazo chips, to create an invincible shell to
house his soul so he could never die again. The assembled heroes, along
with others, go after the Red Tornado/Amazo android, who, thinking
himself to be John Smith, went to see John’s family. While they run off,
Grundy keeps the now weak human Red Tornado separate in an attempt to
kill him. Tornado, who is no longer a match for Grundy's superhuman
strength, is beaten and mutilated by the undead brute. In spite of his
severe injuries, through sheer force of will he is able to summon winds
that snap the immortal monster like a tree.

The Amazo form is slowed down by Apokoliptian technology given to Kathy
Sutton by Big Barda (after recent tragedies the JLA had armed their
loved ones). The assembled heroes manage to neutralize Amazo.

Slowly dying, he asks his wife to quickly rebuild the Red Tornado
android and allow him to return. Zatanna lifts the spell trapping his
soul which allows Red Tornado to again be able to inhabit his android
shell upon "death". Although he is offered to keep the various
enhancement planted by Ivo, Red Tornado divests himself of all
augmentation, joining the Justice League of America with his usual array
of powers. However, since the return to his robotic body, Red Tornado
has begun behaving out of the ordinary, even losing control of his
powers at one point and nearly killing Red Arrow. He also becomes
increasingly cold and detached from his friends and family, in which he
acts more like a machine than a sentient being.

After the team's battle with the Injustice League, Red Tornado's
body is badly damaged, and his consciousness is placed into the Hall
of Justice's computer systems. When his feelings slowly return, he
warns that this time a jump into a new host body could be a damaging
experience for his soul, and even if the new shell Magnus built for him
mimicks perfectly every function of a human body, its computational
abilities are far inferior than his current cybernetic mind.
Nevertheless, he accepts the deal in order to get a new chance at life
with his family.

The Justice League, calling upon Zatanna and John Henry Irons, initiates
the transfer, however Amazo, still present in the previous body of Red
Tornado as a dormant program, takes control of the self-repairing
routines, fights Irons and steals the Magnus shell for himself, giving
battle to the whole League. In the end, Zatanna is forced to
unleash against him the only force Amazo is unable to mimic, the very
soul of Red Tornado in his primal, elemental form. Red Tornado is then
restored in a spare body, after which the Tornado proposes marriage
to Kathy, which she accepts. After helping to capture Professor Ivo, Red
Tornado takes a leave of absence from the League.

In 2009,  announced a Red Tornado mini-series, which chronicles
his origin and the revelation of a new "Android family" that may cause
conflict between Tornado and his wife and adopted daughter, following
the events of Final Crisis.

Blackest Night and Brightest Day

Following the events of the mini-series, Red Tornado is once again
destroyed, this time during a fierce battle with Black Lantern versions
of deceased JLA members Vibe and Steel. Once the Blackest Night
ends, the JLA disbands and is replaced by a new roster. Former Titan
Cyborg is among the new members of the League, and immediately sets out
to rebuild Red Tornado, and claims to have a plan to make him
indestructible. With his new body still under construction, Red
Tornado's severed (but sentient) head is left behind by Cyborg when the
team abruptly leaves the JLA Watchtower to face down a group of villains
on Blackhawk Island. While waiting in Cyborg's workshop, Red Tornado
witnesses Green Arrow's battle with Doctor Impossible, and ultimately
saves the archer's life when he activates his unfinished body and uses
it to attack Impossible and his cohorts.

Following this, Cyborg takes a leave of absence from the JLA in order to
finish the work on John's new body. With the repairs finally completed
thanks to the use of self-replicating nanites, he invites Kathy to the
S.T.A.R. Labs facility in order to reunite with her husband. Once there,
Red Tornado lashes out and attacks Cyborg, and begins to beg his friend
to kill him before he hurts someone. Though not yet known to Cyborg or
Red Tornado, his insanity is revealed to be the result of Alan Scott's
Starheart power, which is able to possess metahumans with magical or
elemental abilities. Cyborg manages to free Red Tornado with his
matrix.

Later, Red Tornado aids the JLA during their mission into Hell, where he
helps Superman defeat the demon Minos.


The New 52

In 2011,  rebooted its continuity as part of its "The New 52"
initiative. There have been some allusions to Red Tornado in the primary
New 52 continuity of Prime Earth (Earth-0):

-   In the series Earth 2, set on the world of that title, the Red
    Tornado's body is mentioned as being still under construction,
    and is shown to be kept in Tokyo, Japan. This Red Tornado is a
    gynoid. On Earth 2, Red Tornado appears very similar to the
    pre-reboot version, except it is a feminine robot inhabited by the
    consciousness of Superman's wife, Lois Lane. Sam Lane, Lois's
    father, transfers the mind of his daughter into the robot's body.
    Who is forced to contend with her new existence as a robot, and with
    the reappearance of her now evil ex-lover. After Red Tornado Lois
    snaps Superman from Darkseid's control, Superman and Lois leave for
    the Kent Family's farm.
-   During the battle between the Justice League and Atlantis, Dr. T.O.
    Morrow mentions that his weather machine can take control of the
    weather from the invading Atlanteans, but Dr. Silas Stone rejects
    the idea because the technology is from another dimension
    (specifically, Earth-Two) and unstable. Morrow later tries
    again, going so far as to say, "But the Tornado could...".
-   In  legends of tomorrow red tornado makes an appearance in the
    metal men story


Powers and abilities

Red Tornado is a highly intelligent android possessing superior strength
and durability, and capable of creating bursts of cyclone-force winds
that enable flight, enhanced speed and the creation of storms. The
character can also access information from any foreign computer system.
Red Tornado is upgraded and provided with a new body composed of
microscopic nanites and now possesses the ability to change from android
to human form at will.


Other versions

Three different versions of Red Tornado exist in the four issue limited
series Kingdom Come (1996). One is an older armor-wearing Ma Hunkel,
her wind-manipulating meta-human granddaughter Maxine, and another is a
spirit of the Tornado Champion simply called "Tornado". All 3 of them
serve in Superman's Justice League.

The narrative of the TV series Smallville was later continued in
comics. In that series, Tess Mercer (an alternate version of Lena
Luthor) becomes Red Tornado following her death after downloading her
saved consciousness into a cyborg body.

In the alternative timeline of Flashpoint event, Red Tornadoes are
androids created by Doctor Morrow. They defended in Japan from the war
between the Amazon forces and the Atlantean forces.

Red Tornado appears in Injustice: Gods Among Us comic, as part of
Superman's vision of what his life could have been like. Tornado is
among the heroes gathered at Congress to hear the Man of Steel's
daughter's speech.


In other media

Television

-   The character has made several minor appearances in the animated
    series Justice League Unlimited (2004 - 2006) voiced by an
    uncredited Powers Boothe. In "Initiation", Red Tornado was one of
    the many heroes to join the Justice League when it boosted
    its roster. In "This Little Piggy", He participated in the search
    for Wonder Woman when Circe transformed her into a pig. In "The
    Return", he served as the second line of defense against Amazo's
    pursuit of Lex Luthor, along with Supergirl, Rocket Red and Fire.
    During the engagement with Amazo, Red Tornado was destroyed;
    however, in "Dark Heart", he was back on duty by the time of the
    Dark Heart incident. In "The Great Brain Robbery", Red Tornado was
    also one of the few heroes on the Watchtower present when Lex Luthor
    took over the body of the Flash and confronted him many times during
    the incident.
-   Red Tornado appears in Batman: The Brave and the Bold (2008-2011),
    with Corey Burton making the voice. In the episode "Invasion of the
    Secret Santas!", Red Tornado tries to understand the spirit of
    Christmas, while helping Batman stop Fun Haus's holiday crime spree.
    Red Tornado destroys Fun Haus's giant robot and defeats the villain,
    but his body is destroyed due to an overload. However, shortly
    before exploding, he finally experiences the "tingling sensation"
    that he believes to be Christmas Spirit. His pieces are picked up by
    hazmat scientists and taken to be rebuilt at S.T.A.R. Labs. He
    appears in "Game Over for Owlman!". When Owlman framed Batman by
    posing as him, Red Tornado was among those hunting Batman only to be
    caught in a trap set by Owlman. Owlman tries to kill him by having
    him pulled to pieces by a magnetic field but is saved by a
    Zorro-like Batman and helps defeat Clock King. He eventually becomes
    lonely in "Hail to the Tornado Tyrant!" and thus builds himself a
    son named Tornado Champion. Red Tornado adds human emotions to him,
    but, due to interference by the villain Major Disaster. Champion
    goes insane and wants to wipe out mankind. Renaming himself
    Tornado Tyrant. Batman and Red Tornado battle with Tyrant, Red
    Tornado seeking to reason with his son but suffering severe damage
    in the process. In the end, Red Tornado is begrudgingly forced to
    destroy his own son by driving his hands into Tyrant's chest and
    blasting with his powers. Despite the fact that he claims to have no
    human emotion, the ending of the episode sees him shed a tear at the
    loss of his son, though it seems Red Tornado does not understand
    what this means (he stated that it was 'oily discharge'). This
    episode also shows he considers Batman a close friend, so close that
    he wanted him to witness the creation of his son. He makes a cameo
    appearance in "Aquaman's Outrageous Adventure!" defeating the Top in
    Smallville. In "Sidekicks Assemble!" he is shown as a member of the
    Justice League. In "The Power of Shazam!", he was killed by the
    Faceless Hunter, since he is immune to Starro's mind control.
-   Red Tornado appears multiple times as a recurring character in
    Young Justice voiced by Jeff Bennett. In the series, he acts
    as a mentor and self-proclaimed "den mother" to the team of young
    heroes, taking residence with them in their base in an attempt to
    learn to be more human (a goal he could not reach by spending time
    with the Justice League themselves). Tornado has a prominent role in
    several episodes of the show's first season, particularly in the
    episode "Humanity". Several episodes deal with attempts made by his
    creator, T.O. Morrow, to reclaim Tornado into his "family" of
    similarly elemental-themed robots - Red Torpedo and Red Inferno. In
    the end, Tornado ends up saving his "father" from his newest
    sibling, Red Volcano, though at the cost of the lives of Torpedo
    and Inferno.
-   Red Tornado appears in the Supergirl episode "Red Faced",
    portrayed by Iddo Goldberg. This version is an combat android
    designed by T. O. Morrow (also played by Goldberg) and the United
    States Army.

Film

Red Tornado appears in Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths (2010) in
a non-speaking role. When Superwoman infiltrates the Watchtower, Red
Tornado, among with other heroes, help to defeat them in battle. At the
end of the film, he becomes an official member of the Justice League.

Video games

-   Red Tornado is a playable character in Batman: The Brave and the
    Bold – The Videogame (2010) voiced by Corey Burton.
-   Red Tornado appears in  Universe Online (2011).
-   Red Tornado appears as a playable character in Lego Batman 3:
    Beyond Gotham, voiced by Liam O'Brien.

Toys

-   Red Tornado was a part of Kenner's 1985 2nd series figure wave in
    the Super Powers collection.
-   Red Tornado was the 48th issue in the  Super Hero
    Collection line.

Web series

Red Tornado appears as a teacher at Super Hero High in  Super Hero
Girls, voiced by Maurice LaMarche.

