REDWING (Carrie Levine) is a fictional winged metahuman from the 
Comics universe who first appeared in New Titans #79. She is a member
of Team Titans and was trained by Nightwing, an alternate future version
of Dick Grayson. Later, she metamorphosized into a more aggressive avian
form dubbed WARBIRD.


Fictional character biography

Carrie was from an alternate timeline 10 years in the future in which a
tyrant named Lord Chaos ruled Earth. Carrie's parents were scientists
involved in genetic research at S.T.A.R. Labs; exposure to radiation
altered the DNA of their unborn twin children. Carrie was born with
red-feathered wings and her brother Jonathan aka "Prestor Jon" was born
with the ability to interface with computers.

They were hidden by their parents from Lord Chaos, but their parents'
genetic research was used by Lord Chaos to find and eliminate other
metahumans. After Lord Chaos killed their parents, they joined the
underground. Carrie later joined Team Titans as Redwing.

Redwing and her teammates Killowat, Terra (Tara Markov), Mirage, and
Nightrider were selected to be sent back in time. They were later
followed by Nightwing and Battalion. Their mission was to kill Wonder
Girl (Donna Troy) before she could give birth to Lord Chaos.

When Redwing tried to visit her past self, she discovered that the
Levines had twin daughters named Carrie and Joanna, both who were
perfectly normal.

Redwing is part of the honor guard for Superman's funeral, along with
dozens of other heroes.  Redwing and her Titans friends join with
dozens of other heroes to destroy murderous alien parasites. 

Zero Hour

The paradox induced by their travel to the past was apparently part of
the time crisis known as Zero Hour. It was revealed that the real
tyrant, the Monarch, had created and brainwashed the members of Team
Titans 36 years in the future in 2030 AD. He then sent them to the past
so he could use them to further his goals and thwart anyone who tried to
stop him. 

After the resolution of Zero Hour, most of the Team Titans characters
ceased to exist. Only Terra, Mirage and Deathwing survived. The Time
Trapper had created them to infiltrate Team Titans as his sleeper agents
that would help him fight the Monarch when the time came.

