RENEE MARIA MONTOYA is a fictional comic book character published by 
Comics. The character was initially created for Batman: The Animated
Series, and was preemptively introduced into mainstream comics before
the airing of her animated debut in 1992.

The character has developed significantly over the years. Renee Montoya
is initially a detective from the Gotham City Police Department,
assigned to the Major Crimes Unit who comes into frequent contact with
the masked vigilante, Batman. Over the course of her comic book history,
Renee is outed as a lesbian, and later resigns from the police force,
disgusted by its corruption. After being trained by the first man to
bear the name, Montoya has operated as THE QUESTION out of a lighthouse
she shares with Aristotle Rodor on the Outer Banks of North Carolina.

She was officially re-introduced in the New 52 in Issue 41 of Detective
Comics following the Convergence event as Harvey Bullock's new partner
with her role as the Question having been officially retconned.


Fictional character biography

Renee Montoya is Latina and was created for Batman: The Animated
Series, in which she is voiced by Ingrid Oliu and then by Liane
Schirmer as a uniformed officer partnered with Harvey Bullock. In the
follow-up The New Batman Adventures, Montoya has been promoted from
police officer to detective. Montoya was also a recurring character in
the third season of the web cartoon Gotham Girls, in which she is
voiced by Adrienne Barbeau. The show's official "bible" described
Montoya as the widow of a fellow police officer who was killed in the
line of duty, as well as an active volunteer at her Roman Catholic
Church, but this information was never mentioned on the series itself.
Now, using her detective knowledge, she fights crime as "The
Question". The comic series Gotham Central describes Montoya as the
daughter of immigrants from the Dominican Republic.

Montoya is a recurring character in the Batman-related comics after
Batman #475. After she is promoted to homicide detective by
Commissioner James Gordon, Montoya is partnered with Harvey Bullock.
After Bullock is promoted to Lieutenant, Crispus Allen becomes Montoya's
new partner.

Gotham City is destroyed by an earthquake in the Cataclysm crossover.
It is soon closed off from the rest of the United States in the No
Man's Land story arc. Montoya and Bullock are two of the many Gotham
police officers to stay behind with James Gordon in order to keep the
peace among the people who have stayed behind.

Montoya is the focus of an uneasy truce between Gordon's forces and the
crime boss Two-Face. She reaches out to Two-Face's Harvey Dent persona
in helping with aid and relief efforts, and he falls in love with her.
In fact he keeps her restrained in his headquarters against her will.
She becomes involved when Two-Face puts James Gordon on trial for
perceived wrongdoing. Montoya persuades Two-Face to offer a more fair
trial, giving Gordon a defense lawyer. Two-Face's Harvey Dent persona
takes on this role, and ultimately convinces Two-Face to allow everyone
to go free.

Gotham City is later re-opened thanks to humanitarian efforts
spearheaded by Lex Luthor. Montoya, Gordon, Bullock and the surviving
officers are re-instated as official police.

In "Officer Down", Montoya is hit hard by a murder attempt on Gordon,
and when the assassin walks free, goes to seek vengeance. However,
Bullock catches her in the act and persuades her not to pull the
trigger, telling her that revenge is not worth her career.

Gotham Central

[Montoya and Two-Face. Art by Michael Lark.]

Montoya is one of the main characters of Gotham Central, a comic book
series about the Gotham City police department. Believing that the only
way to have Montoya is to take everything away from her, Two-Face outs
her as a lesbian to the public and frames her for murder. He then
kidnaps her, making it look like Montoya has escaped. Two-Face becomes
more unstable and the two fight for control of his gun until Batman
arrives to save them. Montoya is cleared of all charges and Two-Face
returns to Arkham, but Montoya's personal life becomes chaotic,
especially with her family: while her younger brother knows about and to
a limited extent accepts her sexuality, her religious parents disown
her.

In the 2004 War Games crossover, Montoya and Crispus Allen are
ambushed by the Black Spider, and Allen shoots the villain. A corrupt
crime scene investigator named Jim Corrigan steals and sells the bullet
on the Internet, but the bullet is needed to prove that the shooting was
self-defense. In her pursuit of the bullet, Montoya beats the name of
the buyer out of Corrigan. Although Allen is cleared, Montoya becomes
obsessed with exposing Corrigan. Allen tries to persuade Montoya to let
it go, but Montoya refuses, so Allen investigates Corrigan
independently. During his investigation, one of Allen's informants is
murdered shortly before Allen himself is shot and killed by Corrigan.
Montoya takes it upon herself to bring Corrigan to justice. Tracking him
down, Montoya beats Corrigan's girlfriend unconscious and draws a gun on
Corrigan. He begs for his life, and Montoya finds she cannot pull the
trigger. Montoya quits the GCPD the next day, disgusted and broken.

52

[Renee Montoya as the Question in 52 #48 (April 2007)
Art by Darick Robertson.] In 52, Montoya, now an alcoholic ex-cop,
spends her days in bars and her nights obsessing about the loss of her
job and girlfriend. The Question shines a Bat-Signal, modified to throw
a question mark, at her window, asking if she is ready.

The Question believes that Intergang is preparing for an invasion of
Gotham, and to that end, hires Montoya to surveil a warehouse in Gotham
City, where they uncover futuristic weapons.

During Week 14, Montoya and the Question fly to Kahndaq, and track down
some leads on Intergang. Abbott, the wolf creature, tracks them. After
they leave an empty warehouse, they are taken prisoner by members of
Black Adam's army.

Nightwing and Montoya find a strange device in a warehouse guarded by
hybrid creatures. Nightwing hypothesizes that it is a bomb. Attacked by
several Intergang henchmen, the pair are helped by a disillusioned Kyle
Abbot. The device is activated, erupting in a pillar of flame. At the
same time numerous other devices are also activated, as Intergang
attempts to destroy Gotham by fire. Montoya wears Charlie's mask for the
first time, going after Bruno "Ugly" Mannheim as the Question, and finds
Mannheim and Whisper A'Daire about to use Kate as a sacrificial victim.
Montoya sets Whisper A'Daire on fire, but is about to be killed by
Mannheim when Kate stabs him with the ceremonial knife and collapses in
Montoya's arms.

One Year Later and Final Crisis

Montoya appears in Countdown #40 when Oracle solicits her help in
capturing the Trickster and the Pied Piper, suspected of the murder of
Bart Allen. The two criminals escape the Suicide Squad only to be
apprehended by Montoya and Batwoman. Montoya agrees to their release,
concluding they are too stupid to be murderers. Montoya maintains that
she will not become a member of the Birds of Prey, but Oracle calls upon
her to accompany the Birds of Prey in Gotham Underground #2.

She later stars in Greg Rucka's 2007 limited series, Crime Bible: Five
Lessons of Blood, in which she pursues the Crime Bible and withstands
its adherents' efforts to convert her to their cause. In Grant
Morrison's Final Crisis (2008), Montoya informs Dan Turpin that she is
investigating the Dark Side Club. She later battles Frankenstein and the
agents of S.H.A.D.E. during her investigation of an apocalyptic
conspiracy related to the Crime Bible (now in possession of Libra) and
Darkseid. She is accosted by S.H.A.D.E. agents in her civilian identity
when she assists a dying German Supergirl from a parallel world.

Montoya appears in the Final Crisis: Revelations miniseries by Greg
Rucka. While trying to stop members of the Religion of Crime from
obtaining a mystic weapon, she is confronted by the Spectre (whose
current host is Crispus Allen, Montoya's former partner). The Spectre
states that she is about to receive judgment. He is stopped by Radiant,
the Spirit of Mercy, who embodies the ideal of Christian love as
introduced by Jesus.

Maggie Sawyer, corrupted by the Anti-Life Equation, emerges from Gotham
Central along with the rest of the brainwashed police force. They
attempt to unleash the Equation on Montoya, but are stopped by the
intervention of the Spectre and Radiant. The Spectre is not able to hold
them off for long, because they are protected by the same force that
protects Libra. Radiant makes sure that Montoya cannot be brainwashed,
and teleports her away. Observing the surroundings, she finds Batwoman
lying in the streets. Batwoman reveals that she now obeys Darkseid as
well, and starts to recite the Equation. It appears, however, that
Montoya is completely immune to the Equation; in the following issue,
she is seen in complete control of her own mind.

Montoya appears in Final Crisis #5, recruited by the underground
resistance movement organized by Checkmate. She is told that she must
travel the  Multiverse and gather help for New Earth. In Final
Crisis #7 she is seen accompanied by Captain  (of Earth 5) where
she gathers a group of alternative versions of Superman that help end
the Final Crisis and defeat Mandrakk the Dark Monitor. She identifies
herself as a "Global Peace agent" in Final Crisis #7 - an allusion to
the faceless agents of the GPA from the original OMAC series.

Starting in Detective Comics #854, Montoya appeared in an ongoing
backup feature written by Greg Rucka, with art by Cully Hamner.

Batwoman: Detective Comics

Montoya takes the case of a missing illegal immigrant — the young sister
of the man named Hector Soliz seeking her detective services. She
follows some leads to their hideout and discovers pornographic pictures
of the girl, indicating she may have become involved in a child
pornography or sexual slavery ring. While investigating a
businessman who she believes is involved with the slavery, Montoya is
kidnapped and left to die after being tied up in the trunk of a car that
is driven into a river. She easily escapes and eventually tracks the
slaves to a boat owned by the businessman. After a brief fight with
several henchmen, the police arrive and rescue the women, reuniting
Hector with his sister.

When Montoya briefly returned to Gotham City, she worked with the new
Batman and quickly realized that he was Nightwing. Her old partner
Bullock also discovered that Renee is the new Question, pointing out
that he worked with her long enough to be able to recognize her rear
end.

Blackest Night

During the events of Blackest Night, Renee is tracked down by Lady
Shiva, who claims that she wishes to test her in combat to see if she is
a worthy successor to Victor. The two women engage in a brutal fist
fight, only to be interrupted when Victor, now reanimated as a Black
Lantern, arrives on the scene and attacks them. After a drawn out
battle, Renee discovers that Black Lanterns feed on emotions, and that
if she is able to cut herself off from her feelings, she will become
invisible. She does so, and angered, Victor stalks off into the night,
searching for easier prey. Shiva reveals that she never intended to
actually fight Montoya, but felt that attacking her would draw Victor
out into the open so she could face him again.

Some time after this, Renee teams up with the Huntress in order to bring
down the criminal network that Renee had earlier encountered.
Eventually, the hitman known as Zeiss attacks the women, having been
ordered by an unknown client to kill them. Renee appeals to the hitman's
greed, offering him more money if he simply fakes their deaths and
leaves them be. After this, Huntress takes Renee to Oracle for help in
tracking down the client who put out the hit, and is flabbergasted upon
discovering that Oracle is in fact "Commissioner Gordon's daughter". The
two women eventually make their way to Oolong Island (home of the Doom
Patrol), where they are arrested. After escaping from police
custody, Huntress and the Question discovered that Vandal Savage is
behind the human trafficking network they had been trying to shut down.
Savage offers to shut down his criminal network in exchange for one of
them taking the Mark of Cain, which had been branded onto his face by
the Spectre during the events of Final Crisis. Renee ultimately
chooses to accept the Mark of Cain, ending Savage's reign of terror but
leaving her face disfigured.

Following this, the Question appears alongside Batwoman as part of
Wonder Woman's team of superheroines when a group of aliens attack
Washington D.C. Rose Wilson jokingly asks her if she intends to seek
an autograph from Wonder Woman, only for Renee to nervously remark that
she is trying to work her way up to asking for one.

Batman Inc._

Renee seeks out Richard Dragon, who helps her learn to suppress the Mark
through her mental willpower.

Following Bruce Wayne's return to the 21st century, he establishes
Batman Inc., a global network of Batmen from various nations. Batman
sends Renee to Paris, France in order to infiltrate the Golden Portal, a
violent cult responsible for a number of deaths. Renee allows herself to
be captured and brainwashed by the cult's leader, Korrigan, and
ultimately uses mental techniques taught to her by Richard and Victor to
overcome Korrigan. With help from Batman and the French vigiliante
Nightrunner, the members of the Golden Portal are defeated and Korrigan
is arrested.

The New 52

In the early The New 52 (a reboot of the  universe) she has
appeared in an image viewed by Batwoman on the GCPD's wall of honor. At
the 2014 Chicago Comic & Entertainment Expo, James Tynion IV, a writer
on Batman Eternal, revealed that the creative team almost included
Renee Montoya, but they decided against it, saying, "We cut her out
because we didn't want her to just be in the background of the GCPD. We
want to bring her back for her own big story."

Renee Montoya made her official debut in the new universe in Detective
Comics #41, as Harvey Bullock's new partner.


Equipment

-   Montoya uses an advanced energy pistol she found while fighting with
    Intergang, as well as her police sidearm.
-   After the death of Vic Sage, Montoya inherited his costume, mask,
    fedora and trench coat, all of which have been treated to react to
    the binary gas created by Aristotle Rodor. In addition, Rodor
    provided Montoya with a shampoo that causes her hair to change color
    when exposed to the gas. According to the Question: Secret Origin
    backup in 52, this substance was developed using technology lifted
    from an old Batman foe named Bart Magan (Dr. No Face) and Gingold
    Extract, a fruit derivative associated with the Elongated Man. The
    Question's series by Denny O'Neil presented Pseudoderm as Rodor's
    attempt to build an artificial skin for humanitarian purposes.
-   The mask adheres to her face and renders it as a featureless blank
    when exposed to the binary gas. The binary gas is expelled from a
    special belt buckle worn by Montoya. The gas also causes her
    chemically treated costume, fedora, and trench coat to change color,
    typically to a dark blue.


Other versions

Flashpoint

In the alternate timeline of the Flashpoint event, Renee Montoya is a
bar owner and bartender. She is defensive of one of the alcoholic
patrons, Bullock.

Smallville

In the first issue of Batman's debut in Smallville season 11's comic
series, Barbara Gordon/Nightwing mentions eluding cops named "Allen and
Montoya".

Earth-Three

In Earth-Three a universe where all heroes are villains, Renee's "evil"
counterpart appears in Justice League #23.4 in Alfred's flashback.
Renee Montoya of Earth-Three is still a member of Gotham Police, however
she is a corrupt cop and like the rest of GCPD of this universe she
works under Owlman. She is seen with the Earth-Three version of Harvey
Bullock alleyway pulling their guns out and stopping a family who was
out watching a movie nearby. They demand the family to empty out their
purses and wallets "in the name of the law". The family however are also
armed with guns and begin firing, they then request for backup but it is
denied as the rest of the police are currently helping Owlman track down
the Joker (who is a hero in this universe). Renee and Bullock are then
run over by Alfred despite them being allies since the Outsider was
trying his best to follow Owlman, it is unclear whether Alfred did not
see them or he simply did not care since Gotham PD worked under Owlman
and he believed them to be expendable. Renee was either killed from
her injuries or when Earth-Three was destroyed by the Anti-Monitor.

Injustice: Gods Among Us

In the prequel comic to the game, she was part of the Insurgency group
in a world oppressed by Superman's Regime. She is also married to
Batwoman in this continuity. Both sides use performance-enhancing pills
granting them superhuman strength, speed and durability. After the loss
of Huntress Renee became enraged, taking all the pills she could find,
and heavily overdosed on them with the intention of gaining enough
strength to take down Superman on her own, well aware she would die from
the drug. She then took out Cyborg in a single blow, took Damian Wayne
hostage and challenged Superman to a duel. During the fight she kept
taking additional pills (she tripled the already deadly dosage) in an
attempt to match or exceed her opponent, until her heart failed because
of the strain the chemicals put on her body. Batman collected her body
and buried her next to Green Arrow and Black Canary.


Reception

Renee Montaya was ranked as the 80th greatest comic book character of
all time by Wizard magazine. IGN also listed Montoya as the 87th
greatest comic book hero of all time: a character representing ethnic
diversity, who has undergone a tremendous personal transformation from
humble beginnings.


In other media

Television

[Renee Montoya, as she appeared in The New Batman Adventures.]

-   Renee Montoya was a recurring character in Batman: The Animated
    Series, voiced by Ingrid Oliu. She is often serving as a more
    open-minded and tolerant foil to the more belligerent
    Harvey Bullock. Like Commissioner Gordon, Montoya is openly
    supportive of Batman and even works with him in the
    episode "P.O.V.".
-   Renee Montoya was a recurring character in The New Batman
    Adventures, voiced by Liane Schirmer.
-   Montoya is featured in the TV series Gotham portrayed by Victoria
    Cartagena. In this continuity, she is a recovering drug addict and
    the former lover of Detective James Gordon's fiancee Barbara Kean.
    She works in the Major Crimes Unit of the Gotham City Police
    Department where her partner is Crispus Allen. Upon learning that
    Don Carmine Falcone ordered Detective Jim Gordon to kill Oswald
    Cobblepot, she becomes obsessed with having him convicted, and in
    doing so, potentially winning Barbara back. She and Allen
    successfully find a witness at the Gotham pier who saw the shooting,
    and they promptly issue a warrant for Gordon's arrest at
    Barbara's apartment. However, her case is ruined when Cobblepot
    turns up, alive, at GCPD headquarters. She later saves Gordon during
    a shootout with Victor Zsasz, and promises to help him take on the
    mob. She and Crispus Allen did not return as main characters
    for season two, but they might appear as either recurring characters
    or often-appearing guest stars.

Film

-   Renee Montoya appeared in Batman & Mr. Freeze: SubZero, voiced by
    Liane Schirmer.
-   Renee Montoya appeared in Batman: Bad Blood, voiced by Vanessa
    Marshall. In the film, she meets Katie/Batwoman at a bar where they
    two seem to get along. Katie gives Renee her contact info hoping to
    see her again. She later appears at the end of the film where she
    joins Katie and her father for breakfast.

Web series

Renee Montoya was a recurring character in Gotham Girls, voiced by
Adrienne Barbeau.

Video games

-   Renee Montoya, partnered with Harvey Bullock, appeared in a short
    cutscene in Batman: Dark Tomorrow.
-   Montoya as The Question appears in  Universe Online.
-   Montoya is referenced in Batman: Arkham Knight, in the GCPD
    headquarters, there is a board listing detectives' shifts,
    including Montoya.

Radio

Montoya was played by Lorelei King in BBC Radio's 1994 adaptation of
Knightfall.

