REX LEECH is a fictional character in the  Universe. He first
appeared in Adventures of Superman #502 in July 1993 and for a time
was a regular supporting character in the Superboy line of comics.


Fictional character biography

Rex was first introduced after the 'Death of Superman'. During the
actual funeral procession, Rex, backed up by two gun toting men, try to
buy the rights to Jimmy Olsen's picture of Superman dead. Olsen punches
Leech in the face. The promoter then has his goons threaten to shoot
Jimmy in the knees. Robin stops the incident.

He was used by Vincent Edge of WGBS to recruit a supervillain for the
new Superboy to fight (Vinnie was wanting higher rating on his
television station). In exchange, Rex would get to be the sole
representative of Superboy. Superboy was reluctant to hire Rex as his
manager, having already been offered a deal by Lex Luthor II, until he
met Rex's daughter, Roxy Leech, who swooned all over the Kid. Rex
managed to secure the exclusive rights to the name and symbol "Superman"
and was not happy when the real Superman showed up alive and well and
Superboy wanted to "sell" him his name and symbol. Rex made the deal,
however, and in exchange the Kid got to officially use the symbol and
name Superboy (on the condition that half of all the profits from any
merchandising would go to charity). The money in question was
initially quite a large sum, given Superboy's superstar status in the
media.

Rex then set up Superboy's World Tour. The Tour was cut short in Hawaii,
where Superboy decided to stay, fashioning himself as the Hero of
Hawaii. Rex pushed Superboy's merchandising as far as he could,
even financing an animated series loosely based on the Kid. The series
was not picked up because it was too violent. Rex blew a lot of the
money on bad investments, and the Kid spent a great deal buying a
ramshakle place in a remote area of Hawaii that he called "the
Compound." Unfortunately, this meant that Rex did not have the money to
pay back a Mr. Gamboni, whom he owed a large sum, so Mr. Gamboni sent
the assassin Copperhead after him. Copperhead decided to spare Rex's
life at the expense of his daughter's—but luckily, Superboy was on the
scene and managed to save Roxy's life. Despite Rex's human status he
becomes a valued member of the super-powered crowd at Guy Gardner's
'Warrior's bar. 

Rex Leech also became a favored friend of the non-powered canine Krypto
and the sentient genetic life form Dubbilex.

Rex and Roxy move on with their lives when they incorrectly believe
Superboy to be dead. Krypto is taken in by a family friend he adores.



Powers and abilities

Rex Leech is a shrewd businessman and a fast-talker. His talents lie in
the areas of entertainment management, cross-promotion and copyright
law.

