RICK FLAG is the name of three fictional characters in the 
universe. They are father, son, and grandson.

The father, Richard Flag, was in the original Suicide Squad, a World War
II unit. After the war, he was a member of Task Force X. The son, Rick
Flag Jr., was a member of the Forgotten Heroes and led two different
incarnations of the Suicide Squad.


Fictional character biography

Rick Flag Sr.

RICHARD MONTGOMERY FLAG led a division in World War II called the
Suicide Squadron. In his first mission, Flag was the only survivor.
After that he enjoyed increasing success and decreasing mortality. After
the war, he married Sharon Race. In 1951, with the disappearance of
the Justice Society of America and other super-heroes, President Harry
S. Truman again called on Flag when he created Task Force X.

Task Force X would have two units: the military unit "Argent" (led by
"Control"), and the civilian unit "Suicide Squad" which would deal with
civilian matters — masked villains and the like. General Jeb Stuart
would lead the military side to deal with national and international
crises. Though Argent's recorded activity ceased after 1960, Stuart's
Suicide Squad continued on. Eventually, Flag sacrificed himself in
stopping the former Blackhawks' nemesis, the War Wheel.

Rick Flag Jr.

Flag was replaced in the Squad by his now-grown son, RICHARD ROGERS
FLAG. Young Rick headed a new, public team which included his
girlfriend, Karin Grace, Dr. Hugh Evans, and Jess Bright. In one
tragic mission in Cambodia they were pursued by a Yeti. Evans and Bright
and the Yeti fell into a crevasse, presumably to their deaths.
Bright survived, angered at being left behind.

Bright, frostbitten and near-death, was found by the Chinese who nursed
him back to health. He then passed onto the Russians who transformed him
into the bionic monster called Koshchei the Deathless. With his
expertise in engineering, Bright assisted in the creation of the Rocket
Red Brigade and lent a hand to the nation of Qurac in assembling their
metahuman team, the Jihad. Grace also secretly bore Flag's son and
placed him with an adoptive family. Later, Rick was sent to infiltrate
the Forgotten Heroes as a spy for the government. After the "death"
of the Forgotten Heroes' leader, the Immortal Man, the team disbanded
and Flag worked covertly for the U.S. government.

Rick Flag Jr. was then tapped by the government to lead the new Suicide
Squad as formed by Amanda Waller, a role he reluctantly assumed.
Immediately, Rick showed signs of instability, which were worsened when
Karin Grace became the team's medic. Flag hated working with the
criminals under his command, and resented the notion that he and
Deadshot were alike in any way.

There were bright points amongst the Suicide Squad however, as the team
was not completely filled with criminals. Nightshade, although she
resented Flag at first when she was forced to become an accessory to
murder when she became an undercover operative in the Jihad, grew
attracted to him. She was never able to admit her feelings to him
however, and he took no notice.

Flag also held good relationships with Nemesis and the Bronze Tiger,
even though both were in some ways opposed to Flag. Although Nemesis had
feelings for Nightshade, something to which Flag was oblivious, he
stepped out of the way and respected Nightshade's feelings. Similarly,
the Tiger was originally tapped to become the Squad's leader, but was
instead replaced by Flag, something that the Tiger had no problems with.

The loyalty Flag had towards his teammates and Waller was evident in the
fact that he did not shy away from a conflict with the Justice League in
order to free Nemesis from Soviet captivity. He also threatened a
bureaucrat who was threatening Waller's position.

This did nothing to ease Flag's mental instability, and it soon
worsened. Flag led a different Squad in a deadly mission involving the
Doom Patrol in which he was the only survivor. The death of Karin
Grace also served to amplify this and it came to a head when US Senator
Cray threatened to reveal the existence of the Suicide Squad to the
public.

Unbeknownst to him, Amanda Waller had already dealt with the threat, and
Flag set out to assassinate Cray in order to ensure the existence of the
Suicide Squad, even though he loathed some of its members. The Squad set
out to stop him, with the clearance to do so by any means necessary. The
villain Deadshot found Flag and Cray, but instead of killing Flag
however, Deadshot murdered the senator. Flag was forced to flee, and
unwittingly, the existence of the Suicide Squad was still revealed.

Flag set out to destroy the Jihad team once and for all after learning
that his father had previously attacked their stronghold, Jotunheim,
during World War II in order to neutralise a Nazi prototype nuclear
weapon. He left a note to Nightshade detailing his plans. The bomb was
still there, buried under rubble and the Jihad was unaware of its
presence. Flag sneaked in and slew his way through to the bomb itself.
He battled the Jihad's leader Rustam personally, just before the bomb
exploded.

After his death, Flag appeared in an issue of Captain Atom, where his
soul was saved from an eternity in Purgatory and reunited with Karin in
Paradise. His Purgatory self also appears in the Day of Judgement,
limited series. Along with other Purgatory bound souls, he battles
heavenly agents on the behalf of a still living superhero team. As
stated in issue five of the series, his rebellious actions earn him
another after-life chance.

One Year Later in Checkmate (vol. 2) #6, Rick Flag is revealed to be
alive and is rescued from a secret Quraci prison by the Bronze
Tiger. He had been imprisoned there for four years until Amanda
Waller discovered him and alerted the Tiger to his whereabouts. Rick was
later revealed to be leading a clandestine Suicide Squad unit at the
behest of Amanda Waller, and against the expressed mandate of the
Checkmate organization.

Bob Greenberger, who co-created the Suicide Squad alongside John
Ostrander, has publicly objected to the resurrection of Rick Flag.
According to Greg Rucka, Rick Flag's subsequent re-appearance had
nothing to do with Infinite Crisis, and John Ostrander has stated that
he knew how Rick Flag could survive the explosion at Jotunheim when he
first wrote it.

As seen in Suicide Squad: Raise the Flag #2, Rustam used his Scimitar
to teleport both Rick Flag and himself to Skartaris. In Raise the Flag
#5, General Wade Eiling admits that Rick Flag Jr. is not actually the
son of Rick Flag Sr., but is a soldier named Anthony Miller who was
brainwashed by Eiling into believing he was Flag's son. Miller's
conditioning means that Eiling still has control of him, and uses him as
part of his takeover of the Suicide Squad. Forced to activate an
explosive implant in Amanda Waller's brain, Miller breaks free from his
mind control enough to activate Eiling's implant instead, leaving him
helpless enough to be captured. Confronted with the possibility to give
up his presumed identity and return home, Miller decides that the
Suicide Squad needs a Rick Flag, and refuses the offer.

Rick Flag III

Rick Flag Jr.'s young son by Karin Grace who also shared his name was
introduced in Suicide Squad #50. The boy was kidnapped by Koschei the
Deathless (Jess Bright) a member of the Jihad, but was rescued by
Nemesis of the Suicide Squad. He has since appeared in Suicide Squad:
Raise the Flag #4, in which Flag Jr and Bronze Tiger visit his adopted
home, but Flag refuses to approach him.


In other media

Television

-   Rick Flag Jr. appears in the Justice League Unlimited episode
    "Task Force X" with Adam Baldwin as Flag. Like the comics, Colonel
    Rick Flag Jr. is the leader of Task Force X, the son of Rick
    Flag Sr. and a patriot to his country. He recruited Captain
    Boomerang, Clock King (Temple Fugate), Deadshot, and Plastique for a
    stealth mission to steal the Annihilator from the Watchtower for
    Amanda Waller and the rest of Project Cadmus. His father Rick
    Flag Sr. is mentioned by Waller where she tells Rick that his
    "father would be proud."
-   Rick Flag appears in the premiere episode of Smallville's tenth
    and final season, "Lazarus" portrayed by Ted Whittall. He captures
    and interrogates Green Arrow, as well as in episode two of season
    ten, "Shield", as the leader of the Suicide Squad, along with
    Deadshot and Plastique. He once again appears in episode seven,
    "Ambush", along with Emil LaSalle where he takes aim at a visiting
    General Sam Lane, who threatens his agenda of taking down the
    Vigilante Registration Act. In episode 12, "Collateral," it is
    revealed that Flag has been blackmailed into working for Chloe
    Sullivan, who is also trying to take down the Vigilante
    Registration Act.
-   Rick Flag was mentioned in the Arrow episode
    "Suicidal Tendencies".

Film

 Extended Universe

-   Rick Flag is set to appear in the live action adaptation of Suicide
    Squad, portrayed by Joel Kinnaman. Tom Hardy was originally set
    to play the character, but scheduling conflicts with The
    Revenant forced him to drop out of the role.

Animation

-   Rick Flag Sr. appears in Justice League: The New Frontier voiced
    by Lex Lang. Rick Flagg Sr. is killed when he blows up the spaceship
    he is on. A younger Rick Flag Jr. makes a cameo in the end.

Video games

-   Rick Flag Jr. appears in Batman: Arkham Origins Blackgate, where
    Adam Baldwin reprises the role. He and Amanda Waller monitor
    Batman's work at Blackgate Penitentiary. In the post-credits, he and
    Amanda Waller get Deadshot and Bronze Tiger to join the
    Suicide Squad.

