RIP HUNTER is a fictional superhero in the . He first appeared in
Showcase #20 (May 1959). Following three more appearances in
Showcase (#21, 25, 26), Rip Hunter was given his own series which ran
for 29 issues (1961–65). He later starred in the eight-issue Time
Masters series (1990), written by Bob Wayne and Lewis Shiner. Hunter is
the son of Booster Gold. He was created by Jack Miller and Ruben
Moreira.


Publication history

The Challengers of the Unknown is a quartet of science fiction
adventurers created by Jack Kirby. They debuted in 1957, and their
commercial success spawned two other science fiction characters: Cave
Carson and Rip Hunter. Hunter was the more successful of the two, with
art in his early appearances by Joe Kubert, Mike Sekowsky, and Nick
Cardy. Hunter was the leader of a gang of time travelers who were
featured in brisk and historically accurate adventures in various eras.
 editor Jack Schiff reported that he and writer Jack Miller had "lots
of fun" creating the comics.

Rip Hunter has had a number of revisions within the fictional 
Universe. Those changes are generally connected to larger events and
story lines. The writing and editorial staff often use a narrative
device within the comics, known as a crisis event, to explain dramatic
changes to the appearance or personality of characters. Rip Hunter has
undergone a number of different developments within this fictional
universe.


Fictional Character Biography

In his original incarnation, Rip Hunter is portrayed as an ordinary man
who uses his invention, the Time Sphere, to travel through time. Aided
by his friend Jeff Smith, girlfriend Bonnie Baxter, and Bonnie's kid
brother Corky, they have adventures in time. These stories were told in
the series Rip Hunter...Time Master which ran for 29 issues between
1961 - 1965.

Rip is next seen in the series Challengers of the Unknown, where, in
the year 12,000,000 AD, he assists the Challengers of the Unknown, Swamp
Thing, and Deadman in defeating the dictatorial Sun Lords. The
character's next major appearance is in Action Comics #552-554. With
the aid of Superman and the team known as the Forgotten Heroes, an alien
invasion of Earth is prevented.

The Forgotten Heroes are then seen in the 1985 series Crisis on
Infinite Earths, a mini-series intended to change the fictional
universe shared by  characters. During this story, Hunter serves as a
plot device to enable the superheroes of the Multiverse to travel to the
dawn of time where they face off against the Anti-Monitor. The battle
that ensues effectively destroys the Multiverse. Hunter then reunites
with some of his Forgotten Heroes teammates, as well as cosmic heroes
Adam Strange and Captain Comet in a quest to defeat the Anti-Monitor
once and for all. With the help of Brainiac, they journey to Apokolips,
where the tyrant Darkseid uses his advanced science to peer into the
Anti-Matter universe and aid Alex Luthor, Superman, and Superboy-Prime
in the ultimate destruction of the Anti-Monitor. This narrative event
allowed the writing staff of  to alter many of their heroes and
fictional situations.

[Cover of Time Masters #1. Art by Art Thibert.]

The Crisis on Infinite Earths series was used as a plot device to
dramatically alter the fictional histories of many characters. Unlike
most other characters, Hunter continues with the same personality and
memories that preceded this event. This event was used as a literary
device to portray him as a man out of time and without a home. No one
remembers that he existed. The writers further expanded on this by
having their new fictional universe contain an alternative version of
Rip, one who was native to this timeline, and also a master of time
travel.

The original version of Rip is then depicted as attracting the attention
of the Linear Men with his attempts to reach his original universe.
Impressed by Hunter, the Linear Men recruit him into their ranks and the
writers altered the appearance of Rip, using the stress of time travel
as an explanation for those changes. Now, with white hair and bionic
implants, he is seen in a number of series that involve time, or the
manipulation of time as an element of the narrative — most notably
during the Zero Hour mini-series and event.

In The Kingdom, Hunter turns on the other Linear Men, who believe that
time follows a single course of events, and joins forces with Superman,
Batman, and Wonder Woman. Rip also joins forces with young heroes from
the future, to stop the time-traveling villain Gog in his efforts to
destroy Kansas twenty years ahead of schedule. As a result of this
battle, Hunter finally breaks down the barrier to Hypertime, revealing
that the Linear Men are wrong about the non-existence of alternate
timelines in the post-Crisis universe. Rip also reveals that the
timeline of the Kingdom can exist, regardless of what happens in the
present.

Shortly thereafter, the Linear Men, including the original character of
Hunter, are destroyed during the Imperiex onslaught. Although their
consciousnesses survive, and they eventually construct new bodies for
themselves, they have been driven insane by the experience. The
Quintessence, a group of cosmic beings who counsel one another, disband
the Linear Men, and Hunter vanishes in a whirlwind.

Running parallel to those stories, another version of Rip has
adventures; as the inventor of time travel technology in the
Post-Crisis universe. In this universe, Hunter aids heroes Booster
Gold and Animal Man in their own time-traveling adventures, before
taking on the vast Illuminati conspiracy during the eight issue series
Time Masters. This more gritty and realistic (symbolized by jeans and
a T-shirt rather than a costume) take on the character attempts to
change the past to prevent the Illuminati, led by Vandal Savage, from
coming into existence. During the series, a relative of the character
known as Dan Hunter decides to stay in the past at the time of the
Revolutionary War. This is used to create a link between Rip Hunter and
the pre-existing western themed Dan Hunter, a character associated with
Tomahawk. This series concludes with Hunter being stranded in the
prehistoric past.

In the Chronos series, starring Walker Gabriel, an alternate version
of Gabriel, experimenting with time travel to avert World War III,
mentions a horrible accident suffered by a Commander Hunter, who
apparently scattered himself across time, with only "bits of flesh and
bone" which kept resynchronizing in the lab.

Rip's next major appearance is within the page of 2004's Justice
Society of America, where he takes members of the modern day Justice
Society of America back in time to fight the villainous Per Degaton.
Once again, Rip serves as a device that allows for time-travel, and for
other heroes to travel forwards and backwards in time. This version of
the character returns to a sci-fi influenced costume and the use of a
time bubble. The ramifications of being a time-traveler are explored by
the writer Geoff Johns, who turns the name Rip Hunter into an alias.
This is explained as being part of an attempt by the character to hide
all of the details of his history, lest an enemy travel back in time and
kill him as a child.

[Rip Hunter on the final page of JSA #66. Art by Don Kramer.]

52

The themes of time and changes to the timeline are next explored in the
weekly series 52. Following up from events in the Infinite Crisis
mini-series, Booster Gold tries to contact Hunter. Booster discovers his
base of operations in a time-locked concrete bunker in the Arizona
desert, but when he finally manages to enter the bunker, he finds only a
blackboard, a globe, and some pieces of paper filled with writings about
the future. These papers had references to facts and events like the
mortality of Vandal Savage, the last Lazarus Pit of Nyssa Raatko, and
the appearances of the mysterious Supernova. The purpose of the
blackboard was to provide clues for the readers of upcoming storylines
within that series and other  Universe titles.

As this series progresses, more and more time-traveling characters, such
as Waverider are killed by a mysterious figure who is later revealed to
be Skeets.

Hunter finally emerges in the Bottle City of Kandor. Working with
Supernova, Hunter has been trying to put together a machine that will
"fix" time before Skeets can find him. When Skeets attacks Kandor,
Supernova turns back into Booster Gold and battles Skeets using special
items gathered from the planet. Rip Hunter and Booster then teleport
away, angering Skeets even more. Upon discovering Mr. Mind burrowing
into Skeets' shell, Rip Hunter uses T.O. Morrow and the severed head of
Red Tornado as bait for the Venusian worm. Mr. Mind metamorphoses
into a nigh-omnipotent imago form, a hyperfly feeding on universes.
Hunter then reveals to Booster Gold and Booster's ancestor Daniel Carter
that the Multiverse is restored as 52 individual universes as a result
of Alex Luthor's actions after he escaped his "paradise dimension". Mr.
Mind seeks to devour every parallel universe. Sealing Mr. Mind in a
time-rift, the multiverse is saved. Hunter warns the others to keep
the Multiverse a secret for the time being as he eagerly prepares to
explore it.

Booster Gold

Rip is next seen as an integral part of the cast of the Booster Gold
series. Rip acts as a companion and boss to Booster Gold. His identity
is revealed to be that of Booster Gold's yet-to-be-born son and that
most, if not all, of Rip's exploits committed were actually committed by
Booster.

To protect himself and his own history, Rip convinces Booster to turn
down membership in the recently reformed Justice League and to continue
to act like a self-absorbed goof in order to make sure that his father's
legacy is one of failure and is ultimately forgotten by history. This is
done to ensure rogue time travelers have no motivation to kill Booster
in the past, erasing Rip in the process and the various works he and
Booster will engage in to protect the timestream. Rip and an older
Booster occasionally would interact during the present version's
mission, as they discuss the need to manipulate Booster (in particular,
taunting him with the chance to change history and prevent the death of
Ted Kord and the crippling of Kord's one-time girlfriend Barbara
Gordon).

In Carl Draper's Checkmate blog, a reference is made to the
Smith-Baxter Group, a time-travel consultancy whose founders were
trained by Hunter.

This new version of Rip Hunter is much crueler and darker than
previously portrayed: besides his casual manipulations of Booster Gold,
he imprisoned the surviving members of the Linear Men and engages in
torture against those who seek to alter history for their own selfish
good.

Time Masters: Vanishing Point

Rip, along with Booster Gold, Superman, and Hal Jordan starred in Time
Masters: Vanishing Point, a limited series that is a companion piece to
Batman: The Return of Bruce Wayne. The series followed the heroes'
journey to find Batman who was lost in time following Final
Crisis.

Convergence

Though Rip Hunter was shown blinking out of existence following the end
of Flashpoint and the merging of three separate timelines, it is
revealed that he survived and may have turned against his own father,
Booster Gold (who survived the rebooting of the  Universe at the end
of Flashpoint). Through means which are yet to be revealed, Rip Hunter
almost managed to prevent his father from frantically warning his newly
created counterpart that the romance between Wonder Woman and Superman
will erase the past of his future from existence.

Vertigo

A Rip Hunter story by writer Damon Lindelof and artist Jeff Lemire
appeared in Time Warp #1 published by Vertigo in May 2013.


In other media

-   Rip Hunter appears in Batman: The Brave and the Bold episode "Time
    Out for Vengeance!" voiced by Brian Bloom. He helps Batman and the
    Justice League International travel in time to save other versions
    of Batman from the minions of Equinox.

-   Rip Hunter is mentioned in the first season finale of The Flash
    episode "Fast Enough" by Eobard Thawne as the original creator of
    the 'time bubble' he attempts to create as a means of returning to
    his own time.

-   Arthur Darvill portrays Rip Hunter in the CW's spin-off of Arrow
    and The Flash titled Legends of Tomorrow. He is portrayed as
    a time-traveler who has come to the present to assemble Team Legends
    (a team of heroes and villains) to oppose the powerful immortal
    Vandal Savage whose plans will destroy the world and time itself,
    although he later reveals that he undertook this mission for
    personal reasons after Savage killed his wife and son, he was
    forbidden to undertake this mission by the Time Masters, and the
    assembled team actually consists of individuals who will have no
    impact on his future to minimise the potential for damage. It is
    also revealed that he initially attempted to kill Savage early in
    his immortal existence and failed, with a confrontation in 1975
    resulting in Rip accidentally giving Savage knowledge of the names
    and faces of his wife and son, suggesting that their future deaths
    were caused by Rip's own actions. In "Marooned", it is confirmed
    that 'Rip Hunter' is an alias assigned to him when he joined the
    organization so that his enemies could not track his ancestors and
    kill him in the past. His real name is Michael.

