ROBIN HOOD is a fictional character, a comic book Outlaw published by 
Comics. Robin Hood debuted in New Adventure Comics vol. 1 #23 (January
1938), and was created by Sven Elven. The character is based on the
legendary archer Robin Hood whose earliest recorded literary appearance
was in William Langland's 14th century narrative poem, Piers Plowman.
The character of Robin Hood was made popular by Howard Pyle's 19th
century novel The Merry Adventures of Robin Hood.


Publication history

The  version of Robin Hood first appeared in New Adventure
Comics vol. 1, #23 (January 1938). Robin Hood's debut in January 1938
was one of the earliest appearances of a recurring character in a 
Comics title, and predates Superman's debut in June 1938.

The character then shows up in Robin Hood Tales #1 (February 1956)
published by Quality Comics; the series was later bought and published
by National Periodical Publications (later known as ) starting
with Robin Hood Tales #7 (February 1957)


Fictional character biography

The mainstream  version of Robin Hood is Robert Fitzooth, the
12th century Earl of Huntingdon. Fitzooth a veteran soldier, discovers
the ruins of his family castle upon returning from the Crusades. He
later learns that Prince John has usurped the throne of his brother,
Richard the Lionheart, Prince John razed the elder Earl of Huntingdon's
castle and confiscated his lands because he supported King Richard. A
suspicious Richard had sent Fitzooth back to England ahead of his return
from the Crusades. Robert Fitzooth was given Richard's royal ring, and
empowered to act on his behalf. Fitzooth loses the ring to Prince John's
machinations and uses his military training to found a rebel movement
based in Sherwood Forest, to oppose Prince John's rule and retrieve the
royal seal. He takes his namesake "Robin" from a small bird, a robin he
sees bravely opposing a falcon. And the surname "Hood" from a green hood
given to him by the Countess Marian, otherwise known as Lady Marian or
Maid Marian.

More Fun Comics

In More Fun Comics #82 Speedy and Green Arrow use "time pills"
confiscated from a mad scientist named Professor Wurm to travel back to
the 12th century era of Robin Hood. They discover that Robin Hood has
been framed for murder by Sir Guy of Gisbourne; Green Arrow clears
Robin's name, and later returns to the present day with Speedy.

Detective Comics

In Detective Comics vol. 1 #116, Batman and Robin meet and rescue
Robin Hood. Batman also takes part in an archery tournament sponsored by
the Sheriff of Nottingham, all thanks to Professor Carter Nichols and
his "time hypnosis" technology.

World's Finest Comics

Green Arrow travels through time again, and switches places with Robin
Hood in World's Finest Comics vol. 1 #40.

Wonder Woman

Wonder Woman traveled back in time twice to meet Robin Hood using the
"Amazon time-and-space transformer", in Wonder Woman vol. 1 #82, and
then later in Wonder Woman vol. 1 #94.

Adventure Comics

In Adventure Comics vol. 1 #264, while visiting Sherwood Forest, Green
Arrow and Speedy discover a time machine in a secret World War II
laboratory. They both travel back in time where Green Arrow temporarily
takes the place of an injured Robin Hood. He helps the Merry Men fight
the Sheriff of Nottingham, and rescues Maid Marian. At adventure's
conclusion the time machine returns Green Arrow and Speedy to the
present.

Rip Hunter, Time Master

Rip Hunter and a pretty female stowaway meet Richard I of England, as
well as Robin Hood, Maid Marian and the Merry Men in Rip Hunter, Time
Master #22. 

Superman's Girl Friend, Lois Lane

In Superman's Girl Friend, Lois Lane #22, Robin Hood appears in an
imaginary story where he meets Lois Lane and Superman. The story is
later reprinted in Superman's Girl Friend, Lois Lane #74.

Justice League of America

In Justice League of America #101 the Seven Soldiers of Victory, the
Justice Society of America, and the Justice League of America all become
lost in time while battling the Nebula Man. In the story Green Arrow
once again stands in for an injured Robin Hood, he is captured by the
Sheriff of Nottingham but later rescued by members of the JLA and
JSA.


Other versions

-   Writer Michael Jan Friedman and artist Luke McDonnell launched a
    retelling of the Robin Hood legend with Outlaws: The Legend of the
    Man Called Hood #1 (September 1991). Outlaws was an eight issue
    mini-series which re-imagined the legend set in a future,
    post-apocalytic alternate time, akin to the future depicted in films
    such as Mad Max.
-   Robin Hood and his band appear in Fables #4 (October 2002). Along
    with other folk heroes in the Vertigo Comics series, they give their
    lives to buy time for the last ship to flee to the mundane
    world.

