ROCKET is a comic book superhero in materials published by .


Publication history

An original character from 's Milestone Comics imprint, she first
appeared in Icon #1 (May 1993) where she was created by Dwayne
McDuffie (writer), Denys Cowan, and Mark Bright.

At the 2008 Comic-Con,  executive editor Dan DiDio announced
that the Milestone Universe and characters would be revived and merged
into the  Universe proper. The merger treats the characters as new to
the universe, ignoring the "Worlds Collide" Milestone/ crossover of
1994. Rocket reappeared in Justice League of America (vol. 2) #27,
written by creator Dwayne McDuffie.


Character biography

Raquel Ervin was born in Paris Island, the poorest, most crime-ridden
neighborhood in Dakota. Although she is only the sidekick of the
title character, Icon, she is the actual protagonist of the series. She
yearned to become a writer ("just like Toni Morrison"), but lacked the
motivation until she met Augustus Freeman IV, a corporate lawyer who was
secretly a stranded alien with superhuman powers. This occurred while
she and her friends were robbing Freeman's home. Raquel convinced
Augustus to become the superhero Icon, and to take her on as his
sidekick, Rocket. While in costume, she wore a belt that Icon
fashioned out of his escape pod's inertia winder, which allowed her to
manipulate kinetic energy.

Shortly after she began adventuring with Icon, Raquel discovered that
she was pregnant by her ex-boyfriend, Noble (one of the other robbers
from the day she met Freeman). She gave birth to a son, Amistad
Augustus Ervin, named "Amistad" after the famous ship that brought
slaves over from Africa to America, and "Augustus" in honor of
Icon. While her pregnancy caused her to give up adventuring for a
time, Raquel eventually became a superhero again.

Rocket also assists the Blood Syndicate member Flashback in fighting her
addiction to crack cocaine. Rocket was more liberal than Icon,
which caused them to clash on a number of occasions. She befriended
Static, another teenage superhero from Dakota City. While it has been
hinted that someday they might become more than friends, their
relationship remained platonic throughout the run of their respective
titles.

 Universe

Following the death of Darkseid (as chronicled in Final Crisis), the
space-time continuum was torn asunder, threatening the existence of both
the Dakotaverse and the mainstream  universe. The being known as
Dharma was able to use energies that he harnessed from Rift (upon that
being's defeat in Worlds Collide) to merge the two universes, creating
an entirely new continuity. Only Dharma, Icon and Superman are aware
that Dakota and its inhabitants previously existed in a parallel
universe. In the revised continuity, Rocket and the other Milestone
characters have apparently always existed in the  Universe. Rocket
is still partnered with Icon, who appears to have an existing friendship
with Superman and is exempt from prosecution at the hands of the Green
Lantern Corps.

Rocket makes her first U appearance in Justice League of America
(vol. 2) #30, intervening at Icon's request when Batman, Zatanna,
Firestorm, and Black Lightning attack several members of the Shadow
Cabinet while on a mission in the city of Metropolis. Believing Raquel
and the Shadow Cabinet agents have kidnapped former Justice League
International member Kimiyo Hoshi (Dr. Light II), Batman immediately
attempts to strike Rocket with a batarang, which she easily deflects
with her powers. After berating Batman and informing him that Kimiyo is
unharmed, Rocket accompanies the Shadow Cabinet Agents and JLA members
to the Justice League Satellite, where they aid Icon, Hawkman, and the
rest of the Shadow Cabinet and JLA members in a battle with the Shadow
Thief. Once Shadow Thief is defeated, Rocket and the other Milestone
heroes return home by use of the Shadowslide, with Raquel and Augustus
presumably returning to Dakota.

On her Twitter account, writer Gail Simone mentioned that she had
planned on using Rocket at some point during her tenure on Wonder
Woman, but was not allowed to. Rocket makes a cameo appearance
in Justice League, speaking to Wonder Woman


Powers and abilities

Powers

None. All of Rocket's superhuman powers derive from her inertia belt
(see Equipment). By using her belt, she can manipulate kinetic energy,
granting some super strength, and a kinetic force field.

Skills

Raquel Ervin is a voracious reader and a gifted writer. A former high
school gymnast, she is very agile and has quick reflexes. Rocket is also
a good hand-to-hand combatant due to her crime fighting experience as
Icon's sidekick.


Equipment

All of Rocket's superhuman powers derive from the inertia winder
installed in her belt buckle. This device is one of two from Icon's
escape pod, the other is installed in Hardware's current suit of
armor. When activated, the inertia winder surrounds Rocket in an
"inertia field," which absorbs, stores, and redirects any kinetic energy
used against it. Rocket's inertia field is normally invisible to the
human eye. The field glows purple when it absorbs or releases kinetic
energy.

The inertia field primarily serves as a force field that protects her
from anything invested with kinetic energy: physical blows,
bullets, falls, etc. The maximum amount of kinetic energy
Rocket's inertia field can absorb and store is unknown. However, the
field nearly reached its limit during Rocket's battle with Oblivion.

Rocket's inertia field normally extends a few inches from her body,
but she can expand the field to enclose much greater areas. She once
used it to protect a small crowd of people without any loss of its
durability.

Rocket can release the field's stored energy, giving her a range of
offensive abilities. She can strike with superhuman force by surrounding
her fists with kinetic energy. By releasing all the energy in the
inertia field, she can stagger powerful beings like Icon with a single
blow. However, such a feat would leave Rocket defenseless so she
prefers to throw less powerful punches. Furthermore, Rocket has moral
qualms about using her full store of kinetic energy against normal human
opponents.

Rocket can also use kinetic energy to increase the force with which she
hurls an object, turning it into a dangerous projectile. For
example, she once hurled a bullet with enough force to rival a shot from
a high-caliber rifle. This ability is limited to objects which she can
lift and toss with her normal strength.

By releasing her store kinetic energy in focus beams, Rocket can project
powerful energy blasts from her hands. As with her kinetic punches,
the force of these blasts depends on how much kinetic energy she uses.

Recently, Rocket has learned how to use her inertia winder to surround a
target within an "inertialess field." This field's kinetic energy
nullifies the energy of anything trapped within down to the molecular
level. As a result, Rocket can use the inertialess field to effectively
immobilize her opponents. In fact, some opponents can fall unconscious
in as much as the field prevents oxygen molecules from reaching their
lungs. The inertialess field consumes enormous amounts of energy and
collapses after a few seconds.

Rocket can fly by releasing her inertia field's kinetic energy beneath
her, launching her skyward. Initially, she was not very skilled with
this ability and thus could only leap over great distances. However,
after training from Darnice, Rocket can use her kinetic energy as a
means of propulsion for genuine flight. Rocket is capable of flying
through narrow corridors and performing complex aerial maneuvers.
She can even hover in midair by releasing controlled bursts of kinetic
energy beneath her.

Rocket's inertia field has certain weaknesses due to its very nature.
First, the field will not activate if a person or object exerts little
kinetic energy against it. This makes Rocket vulnerable to stealth
attacks, which rely on slower movements and minimal force. Second,
the inertia field offers little protection against weapons based on
non-kinetic energy like thermal (e.g., flamethrowers) or electrical
(e.g., tasers). Finally, Rocket will begin to feel the force of
attacks directs against the field if it is overloaded as occurred in her
battle with Oblivion.


In other media

Television

-   Rocket appears in Young Justice, voiced by Kali Troy in "Usual
    Suspects", "Auld Acquaintance" and "Satisfaction", and by Denise
    Boutte in "Intervention". In the episode "Revelation", she and Icon
    are shown helping the Justice League fight off a massive plant
    creature created by the Injustice League. She reappears in the
    episode "Failsafe", working alongside Red Arrow, Zatanna, Garth and
    Tula as part of a resistance cell trying to stop an alien invasion.
    She later appears in "Misplaced," saving a bus on the edge of
    the bridge. In "Agendas", Wonder Woman nominates Rocket for
    membership in the Justice League, a sentiment which is echoed by
    both Black Canary and Hawkwoman. However, Superman rejects this
    notion on the grounds that she is not old enough to join the League.
    In "Usual Suspects", Rocket joins the Team after Icon is inducted
    into the Justice League, at the end of the episode she learns that
    stopping worldwide threat level criminals is a normal day for
    the team. She helped the rest of the team defeat Vandal Savage and
    the mind controlled Justice League, notably taking down her mentor
    and incapacitating Wonder Woman. She displays an attraction to
    Aqualad, and kisses him at the end of "Auld Acquaintance". She
    appears in the second season, set five years after the events of
    "Auld Acquaintance". Now an adult, Rocket is shown as a member of
    the Justice League alongside her former teammate Zatanna. Later in
    the season Rocket is engaged and throws a bridal shower to celebrate
    with all the old and new female members of the League. In
    "Intervention", Rocket assists Zatanna into forming a containment
    field around Blue Beetle as part of a plot to break the Reach's
    control over him.

Video Games

-   Rocket appears as a playable character in the video game Young
    Justice: Legacy, voiced by Cree Summer.


Notes

-   Rocket held liberal views on economic and social issues, which
    resulted in her often clashing with her conservative partner, Icon.
    Under her influence, Icon eventually began re-evaluating his views.
-   W. E. B. Du Bois's The Souls of Black Folk was a major influence
    in shaping Rocket's liberal views.
-   Rocket is the first comic book superheroine who is a single
    teenage mother. The only other one is Mirage, a former member of the
    Teen Titans. Although Stephanie Brown, the former Batgirl and
    current Spoiler, gave birth at 15, she gave the child up for
    adoption.

