RORSCHACH (born WALTER JOSEPH KOVACS) is a fictional character and an
antihero of the acclaimed 1986 graphic novel miniseries Watchmen,
published by . Rorschach was created by writer Alan Moore with
artist Dave Gibbons, but as with most of the main characters in the
series, he was an analogue for a Charlton Comics character, in this case
Steve Ditko's the Question and Mr. A.

While the series has an ensemble cast, some consider Rorschach to be the
protagonist as he drives most of the plot forward. In the
beginning of the story, he is introduced as the only remaining active
masked vigilante not employed by the government. A ruthless
crime-fighter, his beliefs in moral absolutism—good and evil with no
shades of grey—have driven him to seek to punish evil at all costs.
Rorschach's mask displays a constantly morphing inkblot based on the
ambiguous designs used in Rorschach inkblot tests, with the mask's black
and white coloring consistent with Rorschach's sense and view of
morality.

Reception towards the character is positive and he has been referenced
several times in other comic book stories and has appeared in other
forms of media. Jackie Earle Haley portrays Rorschach in the 2009 film
adaptation directed by Zack Snyder, and also voices him in the video
games series. Rorschach later appears in the Before Watchmen comic
book prequel, with his own individual issue miniseries.


Publication history

[Dave Gibbons' original design of Rorschach.] As with the rest of the
main characters of Watchmen, Alan Moore based Rorschach on Charlton
Comics characters, using them as a "starting point." The characters
Rorschach was specifically based on were the Question and Mr. A, two
comic book characters created by Steve Ditko.

Ditko, who was inspired by the writings of Ayn Rand's personal
philosophy of objectivism, created both the Question and Mr. A as
followers of the ideology. Regarding Rand's philosophy, Moore said he
personally found it "laughable". In spite of this, Moore had a healthy
respect for Ditko despite having different views politically. Moore
recalled that Ditko's very right-wing agenda was quite interesting to
him at the time, and that "probably led to me portraying Rorschach as an
extremely right-wing character".

In trying to create Rorschach, Moore said he was trying to "come up with
this quintessential Steve Ditko character—someone who's got a funny
name, whose surname begins with a 'K,' who's got an oddly designed
mask".<ref name="S&S116"> On how he decided Rorschach's name, Moore
recalls:

The Question was used as the prototype for creating Rorschach, while Mr.
A, being a far more radical right-wing character than the
mainstream-suited Question, served as the main inspiration for
Rorschach's right-wing views as well as his black and white morality.
Moore came to view Rorschach as a logical extension of both Mr. A and
the Question. On the other hand, upon being asked whether he'd seen
Watchmen, Ditko himself described Rorschach as being "like Mister A,
except Rorschach is insane."

Moore stated that Rorschach was created as a way of exploring what an
archetypical Batman-type character—a driven, vengeance-fueled
vigilante—would be like in the real world. He concluded that the short
answer was "a nutcase". Moore also stated that the tone of
Rorschach's diary was inspired by the Son Of Sam letters David Berkowitz
sent to the newspapers, and that his speech patterns were based on
Herbie the Fat Fury.

While Moore came up with Rorschach's name and descriptions, Dave Gibbons
was in charge of the character's appearance. Originally in Gibbons'
initial designs, Rorschach wore white clothing which had inkblots not
only on his head but all over his body. He also wore a large blue
trench-coat, red gloves, red-blue hat and items that look like jodhpurs
or spats over his boots. When designing the characters of the
series, Gibbons said Rorschach was his favorite to draw due to his
relatively simpler features. He described:

Moore said he did not foresee the death of Rorschach until the fourth
issue when he realized that his refusal to compromise would result in
him not surviving the story. He claimed that initially he knew a lot
about the character’s surface mannerisms, but did not realize what was
inside him until he "started to dig." Moore added that Rorschach had
a "king-sized" deathwish due to his psychologically troubled life, and
actively wanted to die but in his own dignified and honorable way, no
matter how "twisted" it might have been. In response to why he chose
to have Rorschach take off his mask to face death at the end, Moore said
that he thought it "just felt right". He believed that it "is not the
mask talking, it's not Rorschach, it's the actual human being [Walter
Kovacs] that is somewhere under there".


Fictional character biography

Past events of Watchmen

Walter Joseph Kovacs was born on March 21, 1940, the son of Sylvia
Kovacs, a prostitute, and an unknown father only known to Kovacs as
"Charlie". His mother was frequently abusive and condescending towards
him. In July 1951, at the age of 11, Kovacs became involved in a violent
fight with two older bullies, and subsequently his living conditions
were finally looked into. He was removed from his mother's care and put
in "The Lillian Charlton Home for Problem Children" in New Jersey, where
he rapidly seemed to improve, excelling at scholastics as well as
gymnastics and amateur boxing. In 1956, after leaving the Charlton Home
when he was 16, Kovacs took a job as a garment worker in a dress shop,
which he found "bearable but unpleasant" partly because he had to handle
women's clothing; it was here that he acquired a certain dress fabric
that he would later fashion into the mask he wears as Rorschach. In
1962, Kovacs scavenged the material from a rejected dress that had been
special-ordered by a young woman with an Italian name. Though Kovacs
learned how to cut and fashion the material successfully with heated
implements, he soon grew bored with it, as it served him no real purpose
at the time.

Two years later when buying a newspaper on his way to work in March
1964, Kovacs read about the rape and murder of Kitty Genovese, whom he
believed was the Italian woman who had rejected the dress. Ashamed by
what he read about the unresponsiveness of her neighbors, Kovacs became
disillusioned with the underlying apathy that he saw as inherent in most
people. Inspired by Genovese's fate, Kovacs returned home, made "a face
[he] could bear to look at in the mirror" from the dress's fabric, and
began fighting crime as the vigilante Rorschach. Initially, Kovacs left
criminals alive, but bloodied, for the police to arrest, leaving a
calling card in the form of a Rorschach test at every crime scene. In
the mid 1960s, he teamed up with Nite Owl II, a partnership which proved
highly successful at battling organized crime.

In 1975, an investigation into the kidnapping of a young girl named
Blair Roche led to the transformation of the "soft" Kovacs into the
ruthlessly uncompromising Rorschach. He tracked the kidnapping to a man
named Gerald Grice. At Grice's shack, Kovacs found evidence Grice had
killed the girl and had fed her remains to his dogs. Rorschach killed
the dogs with Grice's meat cleaver and waited for his arrival. When
Grice returned, Rorschach hurled the corpses of the dogs through his
windows, hanuffed him to a stove, and poured kerosene around him.
Leaving Grice a hacksaw, Rorschach told him that his only chance to
escape would be by cutting off his hand. Rorschach then set the shack on
fire and left. No one emerged. During a later psychological
evaluation, the vigilante stated that Kovacs went into the shack, but
that Rorschach came out.

When the Keene Act was passed in 1977 to outlaw vigilantes, Rorschach
responded by killing a wanted multiple rapist and leaving his body
outside a police station with a note bearing one word: "neveR!".

Present events of Watchmen

By 1985 and the events of Watchmen, Rorschach is the only vigilante
who remains active after the passage of the Keene Act outlaws masked
vigilantes (aside from the Comedian and Dr. Manhattan, who both serve in
the employ of the US government). Rorschach investigates the murder of a
man named Edward Blake, discovering that he is the Comedian. He believes
that someone is picking off costumed superheroes, a view that
strengthens when Doctor Manhattan is forced into exile and when
Adrian Veidt, the former vigilante known as Ozymandias, is targeted in
an assassination attempt. Rorschach questions Moloch, a former
supervillain who unexpectedly attends Blake's funeral, who tells him
what little he knows. Later, after reading a note written by Moloch
telling him to come over for more information, Rorschach visits him
again, only to find him dead, shot through the head. The police, tipped
off anonymously over the phone, surround the house. Rorschach scolds
himself for falling into such an obvious trap, and is arrested after a
fight, in which Rorschach tries to escape by jumping through a window,
but is unmasked. After the unmasking, Rorschach is revealed to be the
red-haired man who, in addition to being the first character to appear
in the series, was shown several times in the early chapters carrying a
sign reading "THE END IS NIGH".

Rorschach is sent to a prison where many of its inmates are criminals he
put away, including Big Figure, a dwarf crime boss who is hungry for
Rorschach's blood. During his incarceration, he is interviewed by the
prison psychologist Dr. Malcolm Long. Long believes he can help
rehabilitate him; instead, Rorschach's explanation of his life and his
justifications for his uncompromising worldview lead Long to question
his own views.

One day during lunch, one of the inmates attempts to attack Rorschach
with a shiv, whereupon Rorschach throws the boiling-oil contents of a
deep-fryer into his face in self-defense. As the guards grab and
begin to beat him, Rorschach hoarsely yells at the watching crowd, "None
of you seem to understand. I'm not locked in here with you. You're
locked in here with me." After the inmate dies, the prison breaks
out in a riot. The Big Figure and two of his associates try to kill
Rorschach, but he outwits and ultimately kills them all in rapid
succession. Rorschach's two former colleagues, Nite Owl II and Silk
Spectre II, begin to take his "mask killer" theory seriously and break
him out of jail to follow up on it.

After the prison break, Dr. Manhattan comes back from his self-exile to
transport Silk Spectre II to Mars. After acquiring a spare costume
from his apartment, Rorschach, along with Nite Owl, enters underworld
bars to find out who ordered the assassination attempt on Veidt. They
obtain a name, a company called Pyramid Deliveries, and then break into
Veidt's office. Nite Owl correctly deduces Veidt's password and finds
that he runs Pyramid Deliveries. Rorschach, who has been keeping a
journal throughout the duration of the novel, realises that they may be
no match for Veidt. He makes one last entry in his journal, stating his
certainty that Veidt is responsible for whatever might happen next, and
drops it into a mailbox.

Nite Owl and Rorschach fly out to Antarctica. There they learn the
true nature of the conspiracy and Veidt's motivations: to unite the
world against a perceived alien threat and stop the possibility of a
nuclear holocaust. Veidt then reveals that he set his plan into motion
well before they arrived. Doctor Manhattan and Silk Spectre II
arrive at the base after viewing the carnage Veidt's false alien has
wrought on New York City. Despite their mutual horror, Nite Owl, Silk
Spectre II and Doctor Manhattan all agree to keep quiet about the true
nature of the events when the United States surprisingly does enter into
a peace accord with the Soviet Union. Rorschach turns to Dr. Manhattan
outside and orders him to kill him so that he won't expose the truth.
Manhattan complies by vaporizing him.

In the final scenes of the comic, Rorschach's journal has made it to the
offices of the New Frontiersman, a right-wing newspaper. Outraged by
the new accord between the Soviet Union and the United States, the
editor pulls a planned two-page story. He leaves it to his assistant
Seymour to decide how to fill that space, and Seymour begins to reach
for the paper's "Crank File," which contains the journal. The outcome is
left to the reader's imagination.


Characterization

[Walter Kovacs, Rorschach's "disguise" (left); and the inkblot mask,
Rorschach's "true face" (right).]

Appearance

Rorschach is 5'6" tall and weighs 140 pounds, and, as Walter Kovacs (his
"disguise"), he appears as a red-haired, expressionless, man who
always carries with him a sign that reads "THE END IS NIGH". Most
people who see Kovacs consider him ugly and Rorschach himself states
that he cannot bear to look upon his human face, considering his mask
(or true "face") to be beautiful instead. His clothing then matches
those of a homeless man, which seems to be his disguise when he has not
donned his vigilante attire.

During Rorschach's nighttime patrols, he wears a striped purple business
suit, similarly colored leather gloves, a grayed scarf, and heavily
unpolished elevator shoes. More signature of his apparel is his brown
trench coat with his matching fedora hat that has a light purple
stripe. However, Rorschach's most defining feature of his costume is
his ink-blotted mask.

Rorschach's mask, which he considers his true "face", is a part of
fabric made from a material derived from the technologies of Dr.
Manhattan, and it is blank except from the front, where two viscous
liquids, one black and one white, are between two layers of latex. The
liquids continually shift in response to heat and pressure, which
explains why the liquid only animates when Rorschach puts it on his
face. The black liquids form symmetrical patterns like those of a
Rorschach inkblot test while never mixing with the white color of the
mask, thus never producing a gray color, much like Rorschach's view of
morality and the world.

Personality

During his childhood, Walter Kovacs was described as bright, and
excelled in literature, mathematics, political science, and religious
education. Kovacs continues his one-man battle against crime long after
superheroes have become both detested and illegal, eventually replacing
his Kovacs identity with the persona of Rorschach. Rorschach considers
his mask his true "face" and his unmasked persona to be his "disguise",
refusing to answer to his birth name during his trial and psychiatric
sessions. Moore depicted Rorschach as being extremely right-wing, and
morally absolute, a viewpoint that has alienated him from the rest of
society, even among other superheroes. Rorschach presents his views on
right and wrong as starkly black and white with no room for compromise,
with the exception of his respect for the Comedian. He excuses the
attempted rape of the first Silk Spectre as a "moral lapse." He holds
deep contempt for behavior he considers immoral and is openly derogative
of heroes who do not share his unwavering views, deriding them as
"soft".

Rorschach, a possible asexual, displays a discomfort with female
sexuality as a result of his early childhood, although the crimes that
most affected him spiritually were against women: the murders of Kitty
Genovese and Blair Roche. Rorschach is often described as being mentally
ill by other characters in the comic.

Skills and abilities

Like most characters in Watchmen, Rorschach has no obvious
"superpowers". He merely has his strong will, peak-human physical
strength, and finely-honed sense of timing and precision. Rorschach is
very resourceful and creative, adapting ordinary household objects into
tools or weapons, such as the use of a can of aerosol spray in
combination with multiple matches to set fire to a police officer and
throwing the aerosol spray to blind another police officer, during a
confrontation at Moloch's house. During the series he is shown to
use cooking fat, a toilet bowl, a cigarette, a fork and his jacket all
as weapons; he is also shown using a coat hanger as a makeshift
measuring device. He owns a gas-powered grappling gun, which he uses to
climb buildings (and once as a makeshift harpoon gun against a police
officer), as seen in Chapter One, which was designed and built by Nite
Owl II.

Rorschach is well versed in street combat, gymnastics, and boxing. He is
also extremely stoic, as shown by his indifference to pain and
discomfort. He even tolerated Antarctic temperatures while wearing only
a trenchcoat over street clothes, without complaining or even commenting
on the severe cold.

Despite his mental instability, Rorschach is extremely intelligent and
was described as "tactically brilliant and unpredictable" by Nite Owl,
and shows a marked affinity for detective work, as evidenced by his
ability to locate the Comedian's costume in his apartment when the
police could not.

He is also skilled at lock picking (although a running gag throughout
the series has him simply forcing Nite Owl's front door to talk to him).

How Kovacs was able to see through the fabric of his trademark mask is
never explained in the comic books. However masks with similar behaviors
are available as costumes that people actually do see through.


In other media

Film adaptation

[Jackie Earle Haley as Rorschach in the film Watchmen.] Jackie Earle
Haley portrays the character in the 2009 film adaptation of
Watchmen, with Eli Snyder, the son of director Zack Snyder,
playing the young Rorschach in flashbacks. Haley said that upon
hearing of the casting of Rorschach, he actively sought the role. His
agent came up with the idea that they should do a shoestring-budgeted
audition tape of Haley wearing his own "little cheesy Halloween"
Rorschach outfit. All of the audition was shot in the living room and
kitchen of Haley's house. The tape was then sent to the film production
crew where Snyder watched it. After viewing the tape, Snyder cast Haley
in the role of Rorschach, saying "Very low-tech but awesomely acted.
Clearly there was no other Rorschach."

While Rorschach in the film adaptation is relatively faithful to his
graphic novel counterpart, there are still some differences in
description and storyline. Rorschach's age in the film is 35 
whereas in the graphic novel he is 45 years old (although this was most
likely an error in production as his certificate marks him as
forty-five). He is depicted in the film as being right-handed
(justified by Jackie Earle Haley being right-handed) as opposed to
left-handed. In the graphic novel, Rorschach consistently talks in a
thudding pidgin while this is toned down in the film, with Rorschach
talking in a more growling manner. His psychological instability in the
film is downplayed, and he appears to be stronger than his graphic
novel-self as he manages to ward off some attacking policemen, even
after falling from an apartment window. He is also shown to openly
disapprove of Dan and Laurie's relationship, mockingly stating to Dan
"Should have known all you needed was nice pair of legs to motivate you"
and being condescending toward Laurie for "being unfaithful to Jon",
asking if she "just got tired of being patriotic or did somebody put you
up to it?"

In the film, rather than Rorschach, Nite Owl II is the one who warns
Ozymandias of the possible mask-killer. Rorschach's method of killing
Grice differs also. In the film he uses the meat cleaver that killed
Blair Roche to continuously hack the kidnapper, uttering after
killing Grice, "Men get arrested. Dogs get put down!". The number of
times Rorschach visits the criminal underworld, Daniel and Moloch are
reduced, and some of these scenes are also altered. Rorschach's
landlady, and anything concerning his apartment are left out; when
obtaining his costume after the prison break, instead of wearing a spare
one in his apartment, he regains his previous one in the prison.

While Rorschach's meeting with Dr. Malcolm Long is shown, this has been
reduced to one meeting; also, Long's dark subplot where Rorschach's
story affects his personal life and philosophy are omitted. Snyder
admitted that while he did not film the scene he "would have loved
to." Rorschach's confrontation with Dr. Manhattan is extended.
Unlike in the novel, Dan is present for Rorschach's death, becoming
enraged at Adrian after witnessing the spectacle. Snyder felt he "needed
a moment at the end" and explained that he changed this scene because he
wanted to show a glimpse of the "sweet" relationship between Rorschach
and Nite Owl that was established in the film.

Motion comic

Rorschach appears in the 2008 animated short film series Watchmen:
Motion Comic where he, along with every other character in the series,
is voiced by actor Tom Stechschulte.

Video games

The 2009 video game series Watchmen: The End Is Nigh features
Rorschach and Nite Owl II as the two playable characters.


References in other works

Comics

Rorschach has been referenced, quoted and parodied several times in
various comic book series and promotional artworks. These include:

-   In The Question #17 published by  in 1988, the Question,
    on whom Rorschach was partly based, actually read a copy of the
    Watchmen trade paperback. Question is briefly inspired by the
    comic and the character of Rorschach, leading him to take a more
    physically aggressive style of crime fighting. At the end of the
    issue, having been overpowered in hand-to-hand combat by a pair of
    villains, he is asked if he has any final words, and Question
    remarks, "Rorschach sucks." Rorschach is also featured in a dream
    sequence experienced by the Question in that issue.
-   In Deadpool: Sins of the Past #4, a miniseries published by 
    Comics in 1994, Deadpool's mask is forcibly removed by the
    Juggernaut, at which point Deadpool parrots Rorschach by screaming,
    "My face! Give me back my face!".
-   In Kingdom Come #2, a miniseries published by  in 1996,
    Rorschach appears as a background character breaking Brother
    Power's fingers. He is also seen standing between the Question and
    Obsidian, during a scene in which Superman visits a metahuman
    bar.
-   In Astonishing X-Men vol. 3 #6 published by  in 2004,
    Rorschach makes another appearance in one of the riot scenes,
    running across the panel.
-   In 2007, Rorschach was featured in the promo artwork by Art Adams
    for the Countdown to Final Crisis: Arena miniseries by ,
    where he is being beaten by Batman from Frank Miller's The Dark
    Knight Returns. However,  opted to omit Rorschach and the
    aforementioned Batman from the actual Countdown to the Final
    Crisis: Arena miniseries.
-   In the 2009 one-shot comic Watchmensch released by Brain Scan
    Studios which parodies the Watchmen series, Rorschach is depicted
    as a lawyer who is known instead as "Spottyman" and is pretending to
    be Jewish.
-   In Uncanny X-Men #525 published by  in 2010, during
    the "Second Coming" crossover, Fantomex, while fighting a group of
    Nimrods from the future, imitates Rorschach's line from when he was
    in prison: "I'm not trapped in here with you... You're trapped in
    here with me" and then adds "That film was stupid."
-   During the  crossover Spider-Verse when the master weaver
    shows the web of life to Solus, Morlun's father to show where Morlun
    is various Spider-men are seen, one of them dressed like Rorschach
    but with red instead of white and with the black spots as eyes with
    smaller spots around them.

Other media

Rorschach has also been referenced or parodied in other forms of media,
including:

-   In The Simpsons episode 407 "Husbands and Knives" broaast in
    2007, infant versions of Rorschach along with Ozymandias, Dr.
    Manhattan, and Nite Owl II are shown riding a surfboard on the cover
    of a DVD of the fictional film Watchmen Babies in V for Vacation
    (a parody of Alan Moore's graphic novels Watchmen and V for
    Vendetta and possibly the prequel Before Watchmen)).
-   The Question, as voiced by Jeffery Combs in Justice League
    Unlimited, mimics Rorschach's speaking patterns and monotone voice.
    In the episode "Question Authority," after being beaten and tortured
    by Lex Luthor, the Question is rescued and unmasked, where it is
    revealed the ordeal has given him bruises resembling Kovacs' after
    his arrest a sign that says "The End is Nigh", which refers to the
    sign Walter Kovacs is seen holding throughout the graphic novel.
-   Rorschach, along with the other main characters of the graphic
    novel, are shown in Saturday Morning Watchmen, a 2009 Newgrounds
    and YouTube viral video which parodies the Watchmen series. In the
    video, Rorschach appears as a "nutty" character who usually is
    "clowning around". He is also a "friend to the animals", and is
    shown petting a pair of German Shepherds, in ironic contrast to the
    graphic novel.
-   In the first episode of the second season of Scooby-Doo! Mystery
    Incorporated, Velma is dressed in an overcoat and fedora and asks
    Fred, "Who were you expecting, Rorschach?"
-   Rorschach was briefly portrayed in the documentary The Mindscape of
    Alan Moore, where he is voiced by Alan Moore himself.


Reception

The character of Rorschach has been well received by critics, reviewers,
and readers; he has also been awarded. In 1988, the character won the
"Character Most Worthy of Own Title" category in the American Section of
the Eagle Awards for comics released during 1987. Rorschach has been
labelled the "obvious fan favorite" and the "flagship" character
of Watchmen, and is often regarded as the most iconic and popular
character of the series. Rorschach has also been
frequently mentioned as one of the most memorable comic book characters
of all time.

Rorschach was named the 6th "Greatest Comic Book Character of All Time"
by Wizard magazine in May 2008, with the magazine stating that
"Rorschach still stands as one of the most compelling and frightening
characters in comics' history." In July 2008, he was ranked as the
16th "Greatest Comic Book Character" by Empire magazine, which, when
picking their top Watchmen character, proclaimed "from a purely iconic
point of view, it had to be Rorschach" and described him as "taut,
tortured, complex creation who, as well as being at the centre of some
of Watchmen's most memorable sequences [...], ends up being perhaps
the most pure out of the graphic novel's characters." TopTenz placed
Rorschach 3rd on their 2010 list of the "Top 10 Comic Book Anti-Heroes
( & )" where he was described as "just one of many outstanding
characters introduced during the landmark Watchmen series, but he is
far and away the most popular and fascinating." In 2011, IGN ranked
the character 16th on their "Top 100 Comic Book Heroes" list, noting
that "One has to admire his determination, if not necessarily his
methods." Rorschach's friendship with Nite Owl II was listed 10th on
Fandomania's 2009 "Top 10 Sci-Fi/Fantasy Friendships" list, which
commented that "even though they have contrasting world views, they have
the same belief towards crime: it must be fought against."

In the making of the film adaptation, director Zack Snyder said "no
character" was more important than Rorschach. The Los Angeles Times
further added on Snyder's statement, claiming "The filmmaker said he
[Rorschach] 'is easily one of the greatest comic book characters ever'
and that's a view shared by many fans and the press that serves
them." When asked what he thought of the character, Jackie Earle
Haley responded that Rorschach was "an awesome character. He is one
twisted, sick individual but he’s still a fascinating character."

Haley's performance as Rorschach in the Watchmen film has been
acclaimed. Empire magazine remarked that the portrayals of Rorschach,
along with Nite Owl, were the most successful and commented that Haley's
performance would make the audience "half-wish Snyder might have stuck
with Rorschach as [the sole] protagonist rather than spreading the net
so wide." IGN praised Haley's performance, despite his face being
obscured for most of the film, as one of the film's key highlights,
proclaiming that "Haley IS Rorschach. It's not just a career-defining
performance, it's one of the best this genre has seen other than Heath
Ledger's Joker. He owns the screen whenever he's on it." Richard
Corliss of Time praised Haley "who does right by his grizzled role"
and singled him and Jeffrey Dean Morgan out as the standout actors of
the film.

