SALAAK (sometimes incorrectly-spelled SALAKK) is a fictional comic book
superhero, an extraterrestrial from the planet Slyggia, and a member of
the intergalactic police force known as the Green Lantern Corps, who
appears in . Physically he appears to be an insect humanoid
with pinkish orange skin and four arms.


Fictional character biography

A famous pessimist and loner, Salaak is a creature of protocol and laws.
A veteran Green Lantern, he has served in many Corps campaigns over the
years. During the Crisis on Infinite Earths he protects multiple
sectors, but found the experience depressing. After this, he went to
Earth looking for company amongst his fellow Green Lanterns. He served
with the contingent of Green Lanterns assigned to Earth and became good
friends with Ch'p of H'lven. For a time Salaak lived in the future,
filling the identity of Pol Manning as Hal Jordan had before him. While
in the future, Salaak was married to a human woman.

Salaak returns to the present day to warn about the destruction of the
Corps. He was too late to stop the execution of Sinestro. The Central
Power Battery on Oa ends up destroyed, and with it, Salaak's ring is
made inoperable. He finds transport to H'lven where he reunites with
Ch'p, one of the few Lanterns whose ring still functioned. Salaak
remains on H'lven and acts as Ch'p's advisor until they discover that
the Guardians have returned and have rebuilt the Corps. The two later
petition for reinstatement, but Ch'p is killed in a traffic accident.
The Corps is destroyed again when Hal Jordan, crazed with grief at the
loss of friends, became the entity known as Parallax. Hal's activities
caused the shutdown of the Oan battery again and Salaak, along with all
other Green Lanterns, were left powerless.

Salaak ends up captured, along with multiple other Green Lanterns and
one Darkstar. They are scheduled to be sold into slavery but former
Green Lantern Guy Gardner, with powers underived from a Power Ring,
rescues the entire group.

Promotion

Salaak attends Hal's memorial service on Earth. The Corps, reformed
again, has Salaak as the senior administrator and the Keeper of the Book
of Oa. The Book tells of the adventures of multiple Green Lanterns
throughout the history of the universe.

Salaak reinforces the squadron of Lanterns sent to save Mogo from Ranx
the Sentient City and other Sinestro Corps members (Sinestro having
returned from the dead). He has expressed displeasure at the fact that
the Guardians have rewritten the Book of Oa to allow lethal force
against members of the Sinestro Corps, but is still committed to serve.

He survived the Sinestro Corps War without major injuries, and he
continues to hold on to his position as keeper of the Book of Oa. He is
kept out of the loop in some instances by the Guardians who neglected to
tell him their plans to create the Alpha Lanterns. He is seen getting
into an argument with Guy Gardner over a bar he wishes to open. Salaak
quickly disapproves, which leads Guy to use his ring to make a
miniaturized version of Salaak mocking him for "hanging out with
midgets".

Salaak is seen in Final Crisis #5 as part of the trial of Hal Jordan.

During the Blackest Night, Oa comes under siege from the Black Lantern
Corps. With the Guardians missing, Salaak takes command of the Green
Lantern Corps as Clarissi and thus the next in succession after the
Guardians, preventing the Alpha Lanterns' attempt to take control. As
his first command decision, Salaak decrees that all fallen Lantern rings
be sent to Mogo, so as not to endanger any new recruits.

After the War of the Green Lanterns, Salaak went along with the
Guardians' orders to prepare a space for Krona in the Green Lantern
memorial hall despite the other Corps members' anger at such a decision,
despite Salaak claiming that the Guardians want to remember the good
that Krona did in helping to found the Corps rather than the evil he
committed later, with the other Corps members denouncing him for his
blind loyalty.

When Kyle Rayner is briefly turned into a ring magnet, Salaak attempts
to remove Kyle's Green Lantern ring on the Guardians' orders. Kyle's
ring resists Salaak's attempt at removal as Kyle protests the decision
and what they did to Ganthet. Later, Salaak assigns the Green Lantern
B'dg to find Hal Jordan on Earth and discovers that the green rings are
being delayed under the authorization of the Guardians to which he also
secretly informs Kilowog of these events. Concerned at recent events,
Salaak begins to spy on the Guardians, learning of their plans for the
Third Army. He is subsequently caught and locked away despite his
protests that their plans are wrong. After the unemotional Guardians
are killed off by Sinestro, Salaak is freed from his imprisonment by
Kilowog and Guy Gardner, who explain to him the events regarding the
villainous First Lantern. Later, Salaak helps Guy search for his old
arch-enemy, Xar. Guy slays Xar on Earth. 

As with most Lanterns, Salakk is lost in the dying universe proceeding
this one. He is fortunate to be one of the few Lanterns on the thriving,
living Lantern world Mogo, which has become a center of activity in what
is left of said universe. 


In other media

Television

-   He has had a small cameo role in the Justice League
    animated series.
-   Salaak reappears in the episode "The Return" of Justice League
    Unlimited,_ among several other Lanterns, who sought to destroy
    Amazo for seemingly destroying Oa.
-   An animated version of Salaak appeared in the Duck Dodgers episode
    "The Green Loontern."
-   Salaak is featured in Batman: The Brave and the Bold. He made a
    cameo alongside Ch'p in "Day of the Dark Knight" and "The Eyes
    of Despero".
-   He also appears in Green Lantern: The Animated Series. He grew
    angry, along with Hal Jordan and Kilowog, when they found out that
    the Guardians had kept the other frontier Lantern deaths from
    the Corps. He later defends the Guardians when Atrocitus and Zilius
    Zox infiltrate Oa. He is able to deflect Zox's attack but is
    defeated when Atrocitus attacks him from behind. With what strength
    he had left, he opened the Guardians' chamber dome to allow Hal in
    to defeat Atrocitus. In the season finale, Salaak is seen
    coordinating the Corps against the Aya Monitor. He is voiced by Tom
    Kenny.

Film

Live Action

-   Salaak makes a cameo appearance in the live-action Green
    Lantern film.

Animation

-   Salaak appears as a background character in Green Lantern: First
    Flight.
-   Salaak appears in Green Lantern: Emerald Knights voiced by Peter
    Jessop.

Alternate Versions

-   Salaak, along with the Green Lanterns Brik and Ash perished in a
    Green Lantern crossover with the Dark Horse comic Aliens. However,
    as inter-company crossovers are not considered canonical, this was
    ignored.
-   Salaak appears in LICD web comic.
-   In an alternate universe ruled by evil versions of the 'Planetary'
    heroes, Salaak is one of the many dead Green Lanterns on display in
    the Planetary headquarters. 

