SHRINKING VIOLET (SALU DIGBY), also known as ATOM GIRL, is a fictional
character, a superhero and Legion of Super-Heroes member in the 
Universe's 30th and 31st centuries. She comes from the planet Imsk. She
was created by writer Jerry Siegel, the co-creator of Superman, and
artist Jim Mooney. She has the power to shrink to tiny size, as do all
Imsk natives.


Publication history

Zero Hour

Pre-Zero Hour

In the original pre-Zero Hour continuity, she was the thirteenth person
to join the Legion of Super-Heroes. She first appeared in Action Comics
#276 (1961). She tried out for membership at the same time as Sun Boy
and Bouncing Boy. At that same tryout, Supergirl and Brainiac 5 joined
the Legion. Shrinking Violet joined the Legion later, as did her fellow
applicants Sun Boy and Bouncing Boy. Despite her shyness, Shrinking
Violet, known as Vi to her teammates, served as an exemplary
Legionnaire. She became romantically involved with Duplicate Boy of the
Heroes of Lallor.

Years later, she was kidnapped by Imsk-native radicals. She was replaced
in the Legion by Yera, a Durlan actress who used her native
shapeshifting abilities to assume Violet's identity (the radicals had
told her that Violet wished to go on a secret vacation). Legion deputy
leader Element Lad and Science Police liaison Shvaughn Erin became
suspicious of the fake Violet when Yera, wearing Violet's form, suddenly
fell in love with Colossal Boy, who harbored an unrequited crush on the
real Violet for years. Yera's charade was exposed and the real Violet
was rescued. After her recovery from the trauma of her abduction, Violet
resumed her Legion career. More cynical in personality, she became
decidedly aggressive in her dealings with criminals. Eventually, she
became the most skilled female Legionnaire in hand-to-hand combat (with
the exception of Dream Girl).

After returning to active duty, Violet broke up with Duplicate Boy when
she learned that, although he had discovered Yera's secret some months
earlier, he had neither told anyone nor tried to rescue her. She later
had a short-term romantic relationship with fellow Legionnaire Sun Boy.
Some time afterward, it was strongly implied (but never explicitly
stated) that she entered into a longer, more serious lesbian romance
with another teammate, Lightning Lass.

After the Legion's disintegration in the aftermath of the Levitz-written
era, Violet returned to Imsk and was drafted to fight in a war against
Braal, the home planet of her fellow Legionnaire Cosmic Boy. This ended
with the "Battle of Venado Bay", during which she found herself saving a
grievously-injured Cosmic Boy from her own comrades; he, delirious with
pain, did not recognize her, and attacked her face, destroying her right
eye and leaving her with a long scar along her face. The two later
reconciled, and although she had her eye repaired, she chose to keep her
scar as a reminder.

Before the Legion reboot, one of Violet's legs was disintegrated and
subsequently replaced with an artificial one.

In the "Legion on the Run" storyline, she operated under the alias
VIRUS, as Legion leader.

During the "Five Year Gap" following the Magic Wars, Earth fell under
the covert control of the Dominators, and withdrew from the United
Planets. A few years later, the members of the Dominators' highly
classified "Batch SW6" escaped captivity. Originally, Batch SW6 appeared
to be a group of teenage Legionnaire clones, created from samples
apparently taken just prior to Ferro Lad's death at the hands of the
Sun-Eater. Later, they were revealed to be time-paradox duplicates,
every bit as legitimate as their older counterparts. After Earth was
destroyed in a disaster reminiscent of the destruction of Krypton over a
millennium earlier, a few dozen surviving cities and their
inhabitants reconstituted their world as New Earth. The SW6 Legionnaires
– including their version of Shrinking Violet – remained.

Post-Zero Hour

Violet originally joined the Legion (as SHRINKING VIOLET). In the final
competition to become Imsk's representative, one of the other
contestants, Micro, murdered the third finalist, Ion. After she
apprehended Micro, Vi was gratefully accepted into the Legion, and
despite her chronic shyness, quickly became close friends with the
outgoing Kinetix who joined at the same time and who pushed her to
become more outgoing. It was shortly after the depowered Kinetix had
left on a search for new power artifacts that Violet came across the
Emerald Eye of Ekron. Seducing her, it gradually allowed Vi to become
more outgoing the way she wished to be to the point where she was
elected Legion leader.

Keeping the Eye a secret after the mystically-repowered Kinetix returned
(having been sent to search for the Eye) proved deadly. Innocently, she
wished that all the Legionnaires would be granted their heart's desires.
Unfortunately for Leviathan, his wish was for a heroic death which the
Eye promptly arranged. Having had a longstanding crush on him, she was
heartbroken by his death, and openly revealed the Eye's power in an
attempt to revive him by forcing the Legionnaires to go on a galaxy-wide
search for a means of resurrection.

It was only after she had remade the Legion, as well as the Earth, in
the Eye's image and several accidentally freed Legionnaires tried to
stop her that she realized it had all gone too far; she then commanded
the Eye to "turn back time". Maliciously, the Eye took the opportunity
to send half the Legion a thousand years into the past, while taking
Violet herself into deep space to attempt to continue its brainwashing
of its host. There, it sensed its prior master, Mordru (one of the few
beings capable of using it against its will) had been reawakened. At
this point, Violet and the Eye had merged, with the Eye being the
dominate host. This joining was called Veye.

After she was freed from the Eye, and Mordru was defeated, Violet
suddenly found herself with Leviathan's powers in addition to her own.
Since then, she has alternated between using the codename LEVIATHAN in
tribute to him, and simply being known as VIOLET.

"Threeboot" continuity (2004–2009)

In this continuity, Shrinking Violet is also known as Atom Girl, a myth
to all but the founding Legion members. She was considered a joke by the
second wave of Legionnaires, until Brainiac 5 revealed her in the battle
against Elysion of Terror Firma. She says she was exploring Brainiac 5's
microverse and simply lost track of time. Invisible Kid used her name as
a cover up to veil his tracks while spying on Brainiac 5. Subsequently,
she assaulted Invisible Kid and after suspending him over the city,
forgave him. She seems to quite like the image this gives her of being
slightly crazy. She is fiercely loyal to Brainiac 5. Atom Girl
overreacts to comments about her size and appears to feel hurt about
appearing small in the eyes of the other Legionnaires, and seems unable
to handle failure, as her rough facade only hides underlying self-image
issues.

Infinite Crisis

Post-Infinite Crisis

The events of the Infinite Crisis miniseries have apparently restored
a close analogue of the Pre-Crisis Legion to continuity, as seen in "The
Lightning Saga" story arc in Justice League of America and Justice
Society of America, and in the "Superman and the Legion of
Super-Heroes" story arc in Action Comics. Shrinking Violet is included
in their number.

In this continuity, which is basically a version of the "original"
Legion had all of the retcons and manipulation of the timeline not
occurred, Shrinking Violet is still at odds with Yera Allon, who joined
the Legion as Chameleon Girl. It is revealed that her relationship with
Lightning Lass, however, remains intact and they are a lesbian
couple.


Powers and abilities

Violet has the superhuman ability to vary her size. Originally, she
could only shrink (down to subatomic sizes, if necessary). In the
post-Zero Hour reboot, the Emerald Eye bestows her with Leviathan's
power to grow to giant sizes as well.


Equipment

As a member of the Legion of Super-Heroes she is provided a Legion
Flight Ring. It allows her to fly and protects her from the vacuum of
space and other dangerous environments. Brainiac 5 modified her ring
allowing it to alter size when she shrinks.


In other media

Shrinking Violet, voiced by Kari Wahlgren, has appeared in several
episodes of the Legion of Super Heroes animated series. She was first
mentioned in "Man of Tomorrow", and later had cameos in "Timber Wolf"
and "Chain of Command", but her first real appearances wasn't until
"Sundown – Part 2" where she helps the Legion spring the Fatal Five and
the Emerald Empress out of prison. When they are double-crossed,
Shrinking Violet sabotage's the Emerald Eye from the inside. After this
she appears in a green costume. She has a notable snorting laugh.

In season 2, she is featured prominently in "Chained Lightning" where
she uses her skills in transnuralplotonics, connecting a new robotic arm
to Lighting Lad. Violet and Brainiac 5 seemed to have grown close in the
episode "Chained Lightning"; whether this is just a friendship or
something more was not explored before the series ended.

In the episode "Message in a Bottle", Shrinking Violet appears again,
this time as part of a party that headed to the shrunken bottled city of
Kandor to stop the original Brainiac. She was teleported with the Legion
(they were shrunk first, using a special laser) to the city. She found,
however, this affected her powers and she couldn't shrink right. She
stands taller than everyone else by a few feet (by their proportion).
She could grow to colossal size (huge to the citizens but still tiny to
normal humans) as well. Her relationship with the Legion's Brainiac 5 is
also hinted at in this episode.

In the series finale, after the corrupt Brainiac 1.0 data Brainiac 5
downloaded in "Message in a Bottle" comes to the fore, Brainiac 5 pushes
Shrinking Violet roughly as he passes her in the hall. She is not seen
again.

