SAMURAI is an Asian superhero in the Super Friends animated television
series. His real name is TOSHIO ETO, and he is of Japanese descent. He
was one of the later additions to the team along with other ethnically
diverse heroes in an effort for the show to promote cultural diversity.
His voice actor is Jack Angel. In addition to being a prominent figure
in several other animated shows, Angel also did the voice for The Flash
and Hawkman.

Samurai appears in The All-New Super Friends Hour, Challenge of the
Super Friends, Super Friends (1980)_, Super Friends: The Legendary
Super Powers Show, and The Super Powers Team: Galactic Guardians.
Besides being inserted to create diversity, Samurai, in a sense, took
the place of Red Tornado with whom he shares similar wind-based
abilities. After sporadic guest appearances, Samurai grew into a
prominent team member in the series' later seasons.

Samurai appeared in the  Mini Series Super Powers. He also
had an action figure in the Super Powers Collection line produced by
Kenner. A character resembling Samurai appeared in a double page spread
in the Infinite Crisis hard cover trade collection. The actual Samurai
made his first appearance in the comics several years later during the
Brightest Day event.


Fictional character biography

Although not outwardly resembling a traditional samurai, Samurai upholds
the code of the Bushido, sometimes relating everything he or someone
else does to the ancient tradition. Although he displays a good number
of powers, the one he relies on most often is the ability to manipulate
wind. He can fly by creating a small tornado around his lower body and
can conjure powerful gusts from his hands that can knock back even large
objects.

In addition to controlling wind, Samurai can also call upon other
abilities he learned during his years of training in the ancient arts.
He invokes them by speaking a phrase in Japanese:

-   KAZE NO YŌ NI HAYAKU (風のように早く) — The most frequently used of
    Samurai's powers. All of Samurai's body (except sometimes his head)
    becomes a powerful tornadic wind that allows him to travel at
    superspeed and use his winds to pick up objects or blow them around.
    In later episodes of the series, he would frequently appear with
    only his lower body transformed into a tornado. The phrase
    translates to "swift as the wind".
-   TŌMEI NINGEN (透明人間) — The second-most frequently used of
    Samurai's powers and used twice (Journey Into Blackness). This
    allows Samurai to turn invisible. The phrase translates to
    "transparent man/human".
-   IGO MOEN — Only used once or twice throughout the series (Journey
    Into Blackness), Samurai engulfs himself in flames. The first half
    of the phrase is not proper Japanese, but the second half can be
    read as "great fire/flame".
-   HI GA MOE (火が燃え) - Also used only twice. This allows Samurai
    to cast illusions in order to fool an enemy. Both times, he created
    the illusion of fire to frighten his captors.

He first appeared in The All-New Super Friends Hour and then he mostly
appeared in the Challenge of the Super Friends series as a fully
active member of the team. He later made sporadic appearances in the
later The Super Powers Team: Galactic Guardians series.

Origin

His real name is Toshio Eto, and he was a history professor prior to
becoming a superhero. One day, Eto was struck by a beam of light sent by
the New Gods of New Genesis, who were trying to create more superheroes
to defend the world from Darkseid. Although Eto briefly ran wild with
his new powers, the New Gods explained their intent to him and he vowed
to become a superhero.


Comics

The Samurai made  appearances during the Justice
League/Justice Society of America crossover featured in the Brightest
Day event. Toshio appears as one of the heroes driven insane by Alan
Scott's Starheart powers, and is shown using his winds to destroy the
city of Tokyo. He is defeated and knocked unconscious by Jesse Quick and
Congorilla.

Prior to Samurai's appearance in Brightest Day, an alternate version
of the character named Toshio was introduced into the  Universe in the
Justice League of America 80-Page Giant one-shot. This version was an
actual samurai from Japan in the 13th century, who was granted mystical
abilities by a sorceress. After a brief battle with the time-displaced
Superman and Doctor Light, Toshio teamed up with the heroes to defeat
Steppenwolf.


In other media

Television

[Wind Dragon as seen in Justice League Unlimited.]

-   In Justice League Unlimited, the character WIND DRAGON (voiced by
    James Sie) is based on Samurai. He is the leader of a
    government-sponsored superhero team called the Ultimen. As leader of
    the Ultimen, Wind Dragon serves as both their field commander and
    their spokesman to the public. While he appears very clean-cut and
    moralistic, he is actually quite an egotist, and doesn't object at
    all to "selling out" his team's image for money. His power is the
    manipulation of wind to allow flight (for himself and
    multiple people) as well as creating gusts of wind to knock back
    opponents or lift heavy objects. He remembers idolizing Superman
    when he was growing up, and says that he was inspired by him to
    become a superhero. In the Ultimen's first appearance (during the
    episode "Ultimatum"), Wind Dragon got his chance to fight alongside
    his lifelong hero while saving an oil platform. Even though he made
    a crack about Superman being old, he still acted respectful for him.
    However, his obligation to his benefactors disallowed him from
    joining the Justice League, despite pleas from his teammate
    Long Shadow. During the fight, Wind Dragon was able to create a
    cyclone of chilling wind to freeze the lava monsters attacking the
    platform, a power he had never exhibited before. Concerned, but not
    willing to dwell on it, he turned his attention back to the media,
    giving them a speech that even made Superman himself groan. Maxwell
    Lord, concerned over Wind Dragon's newfound ability, gathered him
    and the rest of the Ultimen for testing. During this test, Long
    Shadow overheard Lord talking about certain experiments and decided
    to investigate. The team then realized that they were actually
    clones created by Project Cadmus with imprinted memories and actors
    playing their parents. Even worse, their lives were about to end due
    to a fault in the cloning procedure. They further learned the
    implanted memories and actors part when Wind Dragon used his powers
    to abduct Maxwell Lord. Disillusioned, Wind Dragon ordered the
    Ultimen to find Maxwell Lord's boss Amanda Waller. But when the
    Justice League intervened, he got a new idea: if they could take
    down the Justice League, the world will never forget them,
    regardless of the context. He then set his sights on Superman,
    almost killing him by creating a powerful whirlwind to suffocate
    him, but was stopped at the last minute by Long Shadow, who told him
    that killing his idol would go against everything he once stood for.
    Wind Dragon realized his mistake and stood down. Afterward, he and
    the rest of the Ultimen (except Long Shadow who stayed with
    the League) were taken into Cadmus's custody to await their
    eventual death. An army of Ultimen clones were later created by
    Cadmus in an attempt to finish off the Justice League once and
    for all. They were eventually defeated. In particular, three Wind
    Dragon clones working together faced off against Red Tornado, whose
    power from a single hand dwarfed the full might of their
    powers considerably.
-   In Young Justice: Invasion, ASAMI "SAM" KOIZUMI (voiced by Janice
    Kawaye) is based on Samurai. She first appears in the episode
    "Beneath", where she is seen as one of the captive teens being sold
    to the Reach by Queen Bee. In "Before the Dawn", she and several of
    the other survivors are rescued by the Team and subsequently turned
    over to S.T.A.R. Labs in "Cornered". In "Runaways", Asami developed
    the ability to focus her chi (which covers her in a glowing aura)
    which she can use project it outward to break through solid rock, to
    leap at a superhuman level, and to soften landings leaving a trail
    of concentric circles. Sam and the other children escape from the
    STAR facility after growing angry over the constant tests being done
    on them by the staff. This episode also reveals that she can only
    speak Japanese, making it difficult for her and others to
    communicate except for those who understand Japanese (although
    viewers well-versed in Japanese have noticed that she tends to use
    the phrase "excuse me" very often). She and the other runaways are
    stopped by Blue Beetle (who reveals himself to be Tye Longshadow's
    friend Jaime) convincing them to listen to him. Asami and the other
    runaways return to S.T.A.R labs to help Blue Beetle battle Red
    Volcano (who's after the disassembled Amazo) saving the scientists
    and staff. When Blue Beetle ignores the potential harm he is causing
    during the battle and tries to forcibly take them with him, Asami
    and the others escape. The group return to the bus station they had
    destroyed in their earlier escape (alluding to Static's hideout) and
    are met by Lex Luthor (who can understand Japanese when he
    addresses Asami) who recruits them to become the Light's own team
    of enforcers. In "The Hunt", Asami and the others destroy everything
    in sight relating to the Reach. She joins his friends in the attempt
    to rescue the Team (whom have been captured and imprisoned in
    Warworld which is now under Reach Control) and battles both the
    ship's enforcers and Black Beetle. After everyone is rescued thanks
    to the intervention of Arsenal, Nightwing offers the runaways a
    place on the team and plans to kick off Arsenal for his recklessness
    despite his saving the abductees, but the latter refuse and leave.
    After Arsenal convinces them that Lex Luthor is no good, Asami is
    the one who destroys the Father Box and the laptop that Lex Luthor
    has been speaking to them on. Then she and the others depart on
    their own with Arsenal. In "Endgame", she teams up with Black Canary
    to destroy one of the Reach's magnetic field disruptors. Later,
    she's offered to join the team, but refuses. At the end of the
    series, it's revealed that Asami moved in with Tye and his family
    and is now dating Tye.
-   Samurai makes a cameo in the television film Scooby-Doo! Mask of
    the Blue Falcon along with other Super Friends and
    Hanna-Barbera characters.


Toys

-   In the 1980s, Samurai was released as an action figure as part of
    the third wave of Kenner's 1980s toyline the Super Powers
    Collection.
-   Samurai was included in Wave 18 of Mattel's  Universe Classics
    along with several other Super Friends-themed figures.

