WESLEY DODDS is a fictional character, a superhero who appears in comic
books published by . The first of several  characters to bear
the name Sandman, he was created by writer Gardner Fox and artist Bert
Christman.

Attired in a green business suit, fedora, and gas mask, the Sandman used
a gun emitting a sleeping gas to sedate criminals. He was originally one
of the mystery men to appear in comic books and other types of adventure
fiction in the 1930s but later was outfitted with a unitard/cowl costume
and developed into a proper superhero, acquiring sidekick Sandy, and
founding the Justice Society of America.

Like most  Golden Age superheroes, the Sandman fell into obscurity in
the 1940s and eventually other  characters took his name. During the
1990s, when writer Neil Gaiman's Sandman (featuring Morpheus, the
anthropomorphic embodiment of dreams) was popular,  revived Dodds in
Sandman Mystery Theatre, a pulp/noir series set in the 1930s. Wizard
Magazine ranked Wesley Dodds among the Top 200 Comic Book Characters of
All Time, and he is the oldest superhero in terms of continuity to
appear on the list.


Publication history

Golden Age of comic books

Artist Bert Christman and writer Gardner Fox are generally credited as
co-creating the original, Wesley Dodd version of the  character
the Sandman. While the character's first appearance is usually given as
Adventure Comics No. 40 (cover-dated July 1939), he also appeared in
' 1939 New York World's Fair Comics omnibus, which historians
believe appeared on newsstands one to two weeks earlier, while also
believing the Adventure Comics story was written and drawn
first. Each of the two stories' scripts were credited to the
pseudonym "Larry Dean"; Fox wrote the untitled, 10-page story in New
York World's Fair #1, while he simply plotted, and Christman
scripted, the untitled, six-page story, generally known as "The
Tarantula Strikes", in Adventure #40. Creig Flessel, who drew many
early Sandman adventures, has sometimes been credited as co-creator on
the basis of drawing the Sandman cover of Adventure #40, but no
other evidence has surfaced.

Following these two first appearances, the feature "The Sandman"
continued to appear in the omnibus Adventure Comics through No. 102
(March 1945). One of the medium's seminal "mystery men", as referred to
at the time, the Sandman straddled the pulp magazine detective tradition
and the emerging superhero tradition by dint of his dual identity and
his fanciful, masked attire and weapon: an exotic "gas gun" that could
compel villains to tell the truth, as well as put them to sleep. Unlike
many superheroes, he frequently found himself the victim of gunshot
wounds, both in the Golden Age and in stories in 's modern-day Vertigo
imprint, and he would continue fighting in spite of his injuries.

In his early career, Dodds (the character's surname was given as "Dodd"
in his first four appearances; he became "Dodds" in Adventure Comics
#44) was frequently aided by his girlfriend, Dian Belmont, who is aware
of his dual identity. Unlike many superhero love interests, Belmont was
often, though not always, portrayed as an equal partner of the
Sandman, rather than a damsel in distress. Later stories would reveal
that the two remained together for the duration of their lives, though
they never married.

The Sandman was one of the original members of the Justice Society of
America when that superhero team was introduced in All Star Comics No.
3, published by All-American Comics, one of the companies that would
merge to form .

In Adventure Comics No. 69 (December 1941), Dodds was given a
yellow-and-purple costume by writer Mort Weisinger and artist Paul
Norris, as well as a yellow-clad kid sidekick, Sandy the Golden Boy,
nephew of Dian Belmont. Later that year, the celebrated team of Joe
Simon and Jack Kirby took over this version of the character. In
1942, Dodds enlisted in the U.S. Army and served as an anti-aircraft
gunner during World War II.

Silver Age to Modern Age

Reintroduced in the Silver Age in Justice League of America No. 46
(July 1966), the Sandman made occasional appearances in the annual
teamups between that superhero group and the JSA.

In 1981  began publishing All-Star Squadron, a retelling of the
Earth-Two mystery-men during WWII. Although not a main character,
Sandman does appear in its pages. Of note is issue No. 18 which gives an
explanation of why Dodds changed costumes from the cloak and gas mask to
the yellow-and-purple outfit; Dian wore his costume while he was
fighting elsewhere and she was killed in a fray. Dodds decided to wear
the new costume, of Dian's design, until he could bring himself to wear
the original in which she had died.

Later, this explanation would be changed again when Dian Belmont was
retconned to have never died, and a new explanation was given: Sandy
convinced Dodds to switch to the more colorful costume to gain the
support of regular people, who preferred the more traditional superhero
look to his older, pulp-themed costume.

An acclaimed film noir-inspired retelling of the original Sandman's
adventures, Sandman Mystery Theatre, ran from 1993–1998 under 
Comics' Vertigo mature-reader imprint. Although as a whole its
continuity within the  Universe is debatable, several elements of the
series – the more nuanced relationship between Dodds and Dian Belmont;
the Sandman's appearance, (wearing a trench coat and World War I gas
mask instead of the cape and the custom-made gas mask); and Dodds'
pudgier appearance and wearing of glasses – have been adopted into
regular continuity. The series ran for 70 issues and 1 annual.

In Sandman Midnight Theatre (1995) a one-shot special by Neil Gaiman
(author of the Modern Age supernatural series The Sandman), Matt
Wagner (co-author of Sandman Mystery Theatre), and Teddy Kristiansen,
depicts an interaction between the two characters, with the original
visiting Great Britain and encountering the imprisoned Dream, the
protagonist of Gaiman's series. A minor retcon by Gaiman suggested that
Dodds' chosen identity was a result of Dream's absence from the realm
the Dreaming, and that Dodds carries an aspect of that mystical realm.
This explains Dodds' prophetic dreams.

Twilight years

Dodds is one of a number of Justice Society members who finds themselves
in the "Ragnarok Dimension" during the early Modern Age of comic books.
The Last Days of the Justice Society of America Special (1986) wrote
the post-Crisis tale of a time-warped wave of destruction ready to
engulf the world. Dodds and his JSA teammates enter into a limbo to
engage in an eternal battle that would allow the universe to continue
its existence. This was later revealed to be a simulation created by
Odin, which he intended to give to Dream as a bribe. Dodds, Dream's
protege, and Hawkman, the grandfather of Dream's appointed successor are
the only JSA members we see at this time. This lasted only until
1992 when  published Armageddon: Inferno. This mini-series ended
with the JSA members leaving limbo and entering the 'real' world.
Justice Society of America (1992–1993) showed how the JSA members
handled returning to normal life. For the Sandman, the series depicted
him as an old, thin man with a balding scalp and a sharp wit. Starting
with issue #1 his physical condition became important as writer Len
Strazewski had him suffer a stroke at the first sign of a villainous
attack. Both his age and his physical limitations became a theme writers
would use in this character's post-Crisis stories.

During Zero Hour, Dodds is returned to his proper age by the
Extant. Later, Wesley Dodds is shown as retired and living with Dian
Belmont though occasionally coming out of it, most notably in a team-up
with Jack Knight, the son of Dodds' JSA teammate Starman. When Dian is
diagnosed with a terminal disease, the two travel the world together
until her death.

Towards the end of his life, Dodds' prophetic dreams alert him to the
identity and location of the new Doctor Fate, prompting him to contact
the Gray Man, a being created from the residue of others' dreams, as
well as his old friend Speed Saunders to instruct them to warn his
former teammates about what he has discovered. Waiting on a clifftop, he
is subsequently confronted by the powerful villain Mordru, who intends
to force Dodds to tell him the identity of the new Doctor Fate, only for
Dodds to distract Mordru with his gas-gun long enough to commit suicide
by jumping off the cliff rather than allow Mordru to torture him into
submission. His last thoughts were that his final slumber would be free
of nightmares as he is reunited with Dian. His youthful but now grown-up
sidekick, Sandy the Golden Boy, becomes known simply as SAND and takes
his mentor's place as a member of the Justice Society of America as well
as his prophetic dreams. Eventually, he takes the name of SANDMAN.

Sleep of Reason

Wesley Dodds makes a comeback via flashback images in the 2006 limited
series Sandman Mystery Theatre: Sleep of Reason.

Blackest Night

Dodds is reanimated as a Black Lantern in the Blackest Night
crossover. He and several other fallen JSAers attack the Brownstone,
seeking the hearts of the living within.

Exodus Noir

Dodds appeared in the Exodus Noir arc of Madame Xanadu in 2010, in a
story set in 1940.

The New 52

A new Earth-2 version Sandman appears in The New 52. When Washington 
is attacked by Solomon Grundy, Commander Wesley Dodds, along with his
Sandmen paramilitary force, is sent to retrieve and save President
Lightfoot. They are later assigned by Commander Khan in a special
and unofficial mission to infiltrate Terry Sloane's secret facility,
where they confront and subdue a mind-controlled Michael Holt.


Other versions

Kingdom Come

Dodds appears as an infirm old man at the beginning of the graphic
novel, plagued with visions of the impending apocalyptic battle between
various factions of metahumans. Before his death, he relates his
visions, interpreted through passages from the Book of Revelation, to
Norman McCay, who later witnesses the events in the company of the
Spectre.


Powers and abilities

Dodds has prophetic dreams which come to him as cryptic, ambiguous
visions of crimes. Originally of unexplained origin, these dreams were
later ascribed to encounter between Dodds and the entity known as Dream
via retcon. The visions haunt Wes, who uses his keen intellect and
amateur detective skills to properly interpret them. He is also a
talented chemist and inventor, creating the sand-like substance and the
Silicoid Gun ultimately responsible for transforming Sandy the Golden
Boy into a Silicon-based life-form. In the early years of his career,
Wesley Dodds possesses the strength level of a man who engages in
regular exercise, and was a fine hand-to-hand combatant. As he grows
older, his strength level diminishes in relative proportion to his age.
As hobbies, Wes enjoys reading, writing, poetry, origami and philosophy.
Through an unknown process, Wes passes his power of prophetic visions on
to his former ward, Sanderson Hawkins upon the moment of his own death.

Wesley Dodds' costume consists of a basic green business suit, fedora, a
World War I era gas mask, a gas gun, and a wire gun. The gas mask
protects Dodds from the effects of the gas emitted from his gas gun. The
gas gun, a handheld device fitted with cartridges containing
concentrated sleeping gas, is Wesley Dodds' only known weapon. Pressing
the trigger on the gun releases a cloud of green dust rendering all
within the Sandman's immediate vicinity unconscious. An upgraded
canister dispenser for the gun is provided for him by his close friend
and confidante, Lee Travis. Wes is also known to conceal smaller
knockout gas capsules in a hollow heel on his shoe. These prove ideal
when placed in situations where his gas gun is not readily available. He
also makes use of a specially designed "wirepoon" gun, which fires a
length of thin, steel cable.

In the early days of his career, the Sandman drives a black 1938
Plymouth Coupe. The car is enhanced with various features to aid Wes in
his crusade against crime.


In other media

Television

Animation

-   Wesley Dodds (in his Sandman costume) has a non-speaking appearance
    in Batman: The Brave and the Bold episode "Crisis: 22,300 Miles
    Above Earth." He is seen with the other members of the Justice
    Society of America.
-   Sandman makes a non-speaking cameo appearance in the Young Justice
    episode "Humanity." He is shown with the other members of the JSA
    during a flashback sequence.
-   Wesley Dodds' Sandman makes a cameo in  Super Hero Girls,
    graduating from Super Hero High.

Live Action

-   Wesley Dodds appeared in the two-hour special episode of
    Smallville entitled "Absolute Justice" portrayed by Ken Lawson. He
    was shown as being a member of the now-disbanded Justice Society of
    America. He is first seen dreaming about the death of the
    Star-Spangled Kid, and after waking up he puts on his costume and
    stands in front of a mirror. Without warning, Icicle appears and
    kills him. His body was found by Clark Kent with multiple stab
    wounds in his chest.
-   A version of the Sandman (going under the pseudonym of
    "The Nightshade") makes reoccurring appearances in The 1990 version
    of The Flash, portrayed by Jason Bernard. He retained the Sandman's
    costume and knockout dart gun.

Films

-   Sandman appears in Justice League: The Flashpoint Paradox. He
    appears as one of the few active superheroes in the dystopian
    alternate time line. Sandman is first seen as a hologram in a
    meeting of heroes gathered by Cyborg. Sandman is later seen fighting
    in the climactic battle between the Amazons and Atlantians.


Collected editions

-   The Golden Age Sandman Archive Vol. 1 (Sandman stories New York
    World's Fair Comics #1–2; Adventure Comics #40–59) by Bert Christman
    and others.
-   Sandman by Joe Simon and Jack Kirby (World's Finest #6–7;
    Adventure Comics #72–102; Sandman #1)
-   Sandman Mystery Theatre Book 1: The Tarantula (Sandman Mystery
    Theatre #1–4)
-   Sandman Mystery Theatre Book 2: The Face and The Brute (Sandman
    Mystery Theatre #5–12)
-   Sandman Mystery Theatre Book 3: The Vamp (Sandman Mystery
    Theatre #13–16)
-   Sandman Mystery Theatre Book 4: The Scorpion (Sandman Mystery
    Theatre #17–20)
-   Sandman Mystery Theatre Book 5: Dr. Death and the Night of the
    Butcher (Sandman Mystery Theatre #21–28)
-   Sandman Mystery Theatre Book 6: The Hourman and the Python
    (Sandman Mystery Theatre #29–36)
-   Sandman Mystery Theatre Book 7: The Mist and the Phantom of the
    Fair (Sandman Mystery Theatre #37–44)
-   Sandman Mystery Theatre Book 8: The Blackhawk and the Return of
    the Scarlet Ghost (Sandman Mystery Theatre #45–52)
-   Sandman Mystery Theatre: Sleep of Reason (Sandman Mystery Theatre:
    Sleep of Reason #1–5)

