SARGON THE SORCERER is a fictional character, a second string mystic,
superhero and sorcerer appearing in  during the Golden Age. The
original Sargon first appeared in All-American Comics # 26, (May
1941), and was created by John B. Wentworth and Howard Purcell. The
modern Sargon first appears in Helmet of Fate: Sargon # 1 (April 2007)
and was created by Steve Niles and Scott Hampton. The name Sargon is of
Mesopotamian origin, and one king of Akkad and two of Assyria bore this
name.


Fictional character biography

John Sargent

SARGON debuted in All-American Comics #26, with a publication date of
May, 1941. He was a stage magician, dressed like a swami complete with
turban, to disguise the fact that he wielded true mystical powers,
passing off such feats as illusions. As a child, he came into possession
of the mystic RUBY OF LIFE which allowed him to control anything he
touches (touching the ground lets him erect a wall, for instance).

Taking his professional name from the ancient king of the same name,
Sargon has had a checkered career, acting mostly as a hero during the
Golden Age aided by his cartoonish fat little comic relief
sidekick/manager MAXIMILLIAN O'LEARY as he battled crooks, spies and his
azure-skinned archenemy the BLUE LAMA, Queen of Black Magic, but
re-emerging in the Silver Age - as a villain, at least at first. It was
later explained that his villainous activities were the result of
certain side effects of possessing the Ruby of Life. He was brought back
for occasional guest appearances in the Silver Age and was awarded with
an honorary membership in the Justice League in Justice League of
America #99. Despite this, Sargon was never a major player in the 
Universe, at least in published adventures. [The original Sargon,
artist Howard Purcell] Sargon maintained contacts with several other
mages in the  Universe, notably Baron Winters, Zatara (a fellow faux
stage magician), and the younger mage John Constantine. Sargon answered
the summons of Constantine to participate in a ritual at the mansion of
Winters in July 1985 to help deal with the effects of the Crisis on
Infinite Earths, using the Swamp Thing as their portal into the war
being fought in Hell. Locking hands in a circle of power, and using the
psychic powers of Constantine's drunken acquaintance Mento, the group of
sorcerers (which also included Zatara's daughter Zatanna) observed the
events unfolding, and attempted in turn to channel their magical powers
into several other mystical characters present in Hell, including
Etrigan, the original Doctor Fate, and the Spectre.

Their enemy, a primal form of evil (called the Great Evil Beast) that
was surging upwards to obliterate everything in its path, sensed their
interference and lashed out several times; its power raced around the
circle, finding a weak link and incinerating it. The first to fall was
Sargon. At first panicking and crying out for the others to help him,
and almost pulling his hands away from the circle, Sargon was rebuked by
Zatara to maintain his composure and die like a sorcerer. In a final act
of will, Sargon apologized for his outburst, and calmly sat in place and
burned alive without a whimper, never letting go of his colleagues'
hands. This ritual also kills Zatara and leaves Mento completely
deranged.

Sargon would later return in Swamp Thing, "borrowing" the body of an
elderly German man named Koestler and planning to lead the souls trapped
in Hell in an assault on Heaven. He sacrificed this form to save his
niece, Gracie Brody.

During the Books of Magic series, the Phantom Stranger and young
Timothy Hunter had a brief encounter with what was apparently Sargon's
soul, who attempted to warn the boy of the dangers and costs of pursuing
magical power. He then disintegrated right before their eyes, leaving
behind his Ruby of Life.

Sargon appears in the Day of Judgement series as a grey soul in the
realm of Purgatory. He presumably joins in the fight against the
guardians of Purgatory when a team of living heroes arrives to bring
back the soul of Hal Jordan.

David Sargent

The Helmet of Fate miniseries featured a Sargon the Sorcerer
one-shot, starring his successor DAVID JOHN SARGENT.

After dropping out of college, having at least seven relationships, and
a brief stint as the lead singer in a band, David spent the rest of his
life as a drifter on the side of the road. One day two men who claimed
to represent the estate of his grandfather, the original Sargon, found
David and told him that he was his heir. Actually, these men were demons
trying to find Sargon's Ruby of Life, but could not do so because of the
protection spells he had placed on his house.

David was tricked into signing away his grandfather's estate over to the
two men, who then prepared to force him to find the Ruby when the Helmet
of Fate suddenly appeared. David escaped the two and was led into his
grandfather's secret attic by Sargon's ghost. Searching around, he found
his grandfather's old props, his suit and turban, which contained some
pieces of the Ruby. Those pieces then went into David's chest, through
them Sargon was able to project himself in front of his grandson. He
explained to David that he needed a successor to his name to find the
remaining pieces of the Ruby, which somehow shattered, and he was the
only member of his bloodline still alive. He also explained that he
pulled the Helmet off its course in order to provide a distraction long
enough to grant David the Ruby's power.

David accepted the role of Sargon the Sorcerer, and armed with new
mystical abilities, went to drive the two men from his home. At the
time, the two used a piece of the Ruby they acquired to turn themselves
into demons, and managed to weaken the Helmet. David then quickly
disposed of the two, and sent the Helmet back on its course after
placing a piece of himself into it.

David went on to play a part in Reign in Hell, assisting Zatanna and
Blue Devil, and ultimately sacrificing himself to Lobo's mercy to allow
many heroes and anti-heroes out of Hell; this event left Zatanna and
Blue Devil traumatized, as they were the ones who went to Sargon for
help in the first place.


Post Flashpoint

Sargon appears briefly in Justice League Dark, where he is mentioned
as one of the great magicians of the past age, among peers such as
Zatara and Dr. Occult. In Constantine #1, Sargon is revealed to have
been one of four powerful magicians who became corrupted by their power
and formed the villainous cult, The Cold Flame. He is shown to have died
some time prior, and his daughter has taken on his powers and role in
the group, under the name Sargon the Sorceress.


In other media

Sargon will be featured in the film Dark Universe.

