SASHA BORDEAUX is a fictional character in the  Universe. She was at
first primarily associated with Batman, and has subsequently evolved an
association with Checkmate in two of its incarnations. She was created
by Greg Rucka and Shawn Martinbrough, and first appeared in Detective
Comics #751.


Fictional character biography

Bodyguard, superhero

Sasha Bordeaux first appeared as an attractive young martial artist who
was hired as Bruce Wayne's bodyguard by WayneCorp's second in command,
Lucius Fox, albeit against Wayne's wishes. Wayne at first tried to avoid
her, but she kept on doing her job.

She eventually became suspicious of his constant late-night
disappearances and did some searching, and was shocked to find that
Bruce Wayne was secretly Batman. Knowing he couldn't legally fire her
for knowing of his secret identity, Batman began training her to become
his apprentice. After weeks of hard work, she became fit enough to go
out with him on patrol in a suit, though he still treated her as a total
stranger both as Batman and as Bruce Wayne. During this time, she fell
in love with him, even as he insisted on having her around while he
dated other women.

Framed

One night while Batman and Bordeaux were out on patrol, the assassin
David Cain lured Wayne's ex-girlfriend Vesper Fairchild to Wayne Manor
and killed her, framing Wayne in the process. Both Wayne and Bordeaux
were charged with murder, and Sasha refused to exonerate herself by
giving up Wayne's secret despite the fact that they had been patrolling
separate areas at the time of the murder and therefore even she couldn't
be sure Bruce hadn't killed Vesper. They were both arraigned and held
without bail while awaiting trial. After a while, Batman escaped to
leave his alter ego behind, leaving Bordeaux inside Blackgate prison.
Although Sasha was briefly offered her freedom if she testified against
Bruce Wayne— even contemplating taking the deal after Bruce abandoned
her— a meeting with Alfred Pennyworth, who had recently returned to
Gotham after spending time away, left her resolved to reject the offer.
Alfred helped her realize that Bruce had truly valued her work, rather
than using her without any thought for herself, as otherwise he would
never have allowed her to accompany him as Batman. Batman eventually
confronted those who framed him, and Wayne and Sasha were cleared of all
charges.

Checkmate

While in prison custody, Sasha was severely wounded by another prisoner
and would have died had the government agency Checkmate not given her
medical treatment. They faked her death and offered to give her a new
name and identity (complete with plastic surgery) if she would work for
them. With no other options, she agreed.

Batman tirelessly searched for Sasha, not believing she had died in
prison. To facilitate this, he disrupted all of Checkmate's operations
in Gotham City. The group eventually organized a meeting between the
two, where Wayne confessed that he loved her. Sasha, though feeling the
same way, realized that her new life would prevent them from being
together and told him to let her go.

Over time, Bordeaux rose through the ranks of Checkmate to become right
hand to Maxwell Lord, the group's leader. Lord later hijacked the
Brother I satellite that Batman had created to monitor all superhuman
activity. Brother I itself had recently become sentient due to the
actions of Alexander Luthor, Jr. as a part of his plans for the Infinite
Crisis. He also created an army of cyborgs known as OMACs (who are
originally human, transformed when needed by a virus) programmed to hunt
and kill all superhumans and/or specific targets. During his rule, Lord
killed all who opposed him, assisted by Brother I who monitors for
rebellion. Sasha feigns loyalty to stay alive, but breaks this when Lord
kills his former ally Blue Beetle, and orders Sasha to dispose of his
corpse. Filled with hatred for herself and Lord, she sent Kord's
trademark goggles to Batman as part of a message detailing Lord's
madness.

When Brother I revealed Sasha's betrayal, he sent out an OMAC squad who
found Sasha and Batman in an abandoned warehouse just after they share a
kiss. The OMACs' goal of killing Batman and taking Sasha only partly
succeeds as Batman escapes. Lord, realizing he cannot get any
information out of Sasha, imprisons her and brainwashes Superman in an
attempt to kill Batman. To stop this, Wonder Woman snaps Lord's neck,
killing him instantly.

Cyborg

With the help of another imprisoned agent, Jessica Midnight (who had
attempted to assassinate Lord earlier), Bordeaux escaped and set out to
kill Lord, unaware he was already dead. As they were on their way out,
an OMAC attacked the two and impaled Bordeaux. This attack somehow
activated her latent inner programming, turning her into an OMAC cyborg.
However, she retained most of her human features, although her skin now
resembles a metallic coating and one of her eye sockets is empty. She
also found that she retained her free will; unlike the other OMACs, she
was not under Brother I's control.

With Lord's death, Brother I rechristened itself "Brother Eye" and
activated all the remaining OMACs to kill Earth's superhumans. Bordeaux
contacted the other various factions of Checkmate who had left when Lord
took over, apologizing for Lord and asking them to rejoin.

She then created a computer virus and hooked herself up to the Brother
Eye satellite; the virus, along with a massive electromagnetic pulse
blast created by the various superheroes, disabled the majority of the
OMACs. Brother I escaped with 200,000 OMACS.

She later reunited with Batman, who comforts her when she tells him she
was now a machine.

Infinite Crisis

Eventually, with the aid of the new Blue Beetle, Batman located Brother
Eye. He then gathered a team of heroes, including Bordeaux, to attempt
to destroy it (Infinite Crisis #5 and #6). The attack sent Brother Eye
crashing to Earth, but the satellite's central memory remained intact.
With the various superheroes needed elsewhere, Batman tasked Bordeaux
with destroying Brother Eye once and for all. Sasha resists the
machine's brainwashing long enough to blow it up. She survives the
blast, albeit at the cost of the majority of her OMAC shell.

One year later

One year after Infinite Crisis, Bordeaux became the "Black Queen" of
the Checkmate organization. In the first issue of the new Checkmate
comic series, she leads a group of operatives into a Kobra stronghold.
As the new series began, Bordeaux was depicted as a cold-blooded killer;
it remains to be seen whether this is an after-effect of her conversion
to cyborg or due to events of the previous year. Her "the ends justify
the means" attitude towards the success of Checkmate missions has put
her into conflict with Alan Scott. She is also in conflict with several
of her Checkmate colleagues, particularly Fire and Mister Terrific, with
whom she is romantically involved. As the series progressed, this aspect
of her personality was rarely referred to again. In a 2007 story arc
involving The Outsiders, Bordeaux suffered extreme torture at the hands
of Chang Tzu who wished to learn more about her cybernetic implants.
Although she survived this encounter (barely), subsequent issues have
had her fighting to regain her confidence, especially when the healing
process results in even more of her body becoming cybernetic.

In Manhunter (#27, January 2007), Sasha intervenes in the trial of
Wonder Woman (for murdering Maxwell Lord) by secretly delivering
exonerating evidence to Wonder Woman's lawyer, Kate Spencer.

Final Crisis

During the events of "Final Crisis", Sasha forms a small resistance team
that includes Snapper Carr, her current romantic interest Mister
Terrific, an artificial intelligence and later, the villain Cheetah.
They cause much damage against the conquering forces of Darkseid, mainly
utilizing Snapper's teleportation power. When Sasha is infected by the
Anti-Life Formula, the OMAC nanites in her body put her in a coma to
prevent the spread of the infection. After Snapper's powers are
neutralized, Mister Terrific realizes they must re-activate all OMACS
that are left. The only way to do this is to revive Sasha and retrieve
the OMAC codes from her nanites. The activation of the OMACs is
successful, but the revival causes Sasha's biological processes to shut
down.

JSA vs. Kobra

In the 2009 miniseries "JSA Vs. Kobra", Mr. Terrific, along with Dr.
Mid-Nite, are keeping a comatose Sasha alive via life support, with the
hope that they will be able to cure her. By the end of the series, Sasha
is restored to life and passionately kisses Mr. Terrific. This is
the last appearance of Sasha, and her current whereabouts are unknown.


Powers and abilities

Even before her transformation, Sasha was a skilled hand-to-hand
combatant and marksman. She was skilled enough that Batman allowed her
to serve as a sidekick of sorts.

When Sasha was captured by Chang Tzu and studied, he discovered that
she had the following abilities:

-   "A rough ten-to-twenty percent enhancement over even an Olympic
    level athlete across the board--in strength, stamina, endurance,
    speed, dexterity...". During the procedure, she also demonstrated a
    rapidly increasing tolerance to the sedatives being used to keep
    her unconscious.
-   "(Via Sasha's) ocular implant, the whole of the visual spectrum and
    more, revealed to you". Earlier in the same storyline, Sasha
    demonstrated the ability to see in the infrared spectrum.
-   "Optimized targeting optics...you must make a terrifyingly accurate
    sniper..."
-   "Body parts encased in the OMAC composite shell...nanobot scabs
    covering your weaker flesh."

Sasha also has the ability to turn her nanorobotic components on and off
at will, and they also help her to regenerate from damage she sustains,
particularly to those non-biological parts of her body.


Notes

