SAVANT is a comic book character from .


Fictional character biography

BRIAN DURLIN, better known as Savant, is the spoiled heir to an enormous
fortune. Savant had moved to Gotham City to become a self-styled
vigilante. However, after Batman discouraged his involvement in
vigilantism because of his lack of care to protect others, he turned his
own formidable computer skills into a profitable blackmailing business.
Savant was joined in this by an ex-Russian KGB agent named Creote.

Savant later kidnapped Black Canary in hopes to get the real identity of
Batman from Oracle. However, he was soon defeated by her team. Oracle
then made the decision to attempt to rehabilitate him, mainly in order
to keep his data files on hundreds of real villains. Like his namesake,
he is a genius; however, due to a chemical imbalance he exhibits a
non-linear memory and seems to be quite forgetful. Savant has also
exhibited feelings for Oracle, probably rooted in his envy of her
computer skills.

Savant went on, under Oracle's control, to clean up a Gotham
neighborhood. However his unique methods lead Oracle to regret her
decision. Savant and Creote then joined forces with The Huntress to take
over the Gotham mafia by placing Huntress as capo.

As part of a plan by Calculator to get to Oracle, Savant was kidnapped
and tortured by agents of the Secret Society of Super Villains.
However his non-linear memory helped him to resist the interrogation,
making it appear to last only a few hours rather than the days it had
really been. He was rescued by the Birds of Prey and out of anger pushed
the villain Black Spider out of a window. Spider survived, meaning the
Birds did not have to arrest Savant for murder, though he did end his
association with Oracle.

He and Creote turn up alongside dozens of former Birds of Prey and
friends of Barbara to confront Spy Smasher.

He is one of the villains sent to retrieve the Get Out of Hell free card
from the Secret Six.

Savant is seemingly attacked and murdered by The White Canary . After a
failed attempt to keep him alive, a grieving Creote blames Oracle for
this and shoots himself. However, it turns out that both faked their
deaths. They later appear in Oracle's base and abduct her, planning for
her to reveal her secret identity to the world. They take Oracle to
the top of the Gotham Dam, where Savant reveals that his distorted sense
of time means that his torture at the hands of the Secret Society feels
like it only happened five minutes ago and that he has been in constant
mental agony for two years. He then reveals that the true purpose of
bringing Oracle out to the dam was to have her witness his suicide and
attempts to throw himself off the dam, but Oracle leaps from her chair
and stops him, convincing Creote to help pull them up despite his
promise to let Savant die. She then explains to a confused Savant that
Creote is in love with him. Creote later admits his feelings to
Savant, who to his surprise reciprocates.

Savant and Creote were offered positions in the Birds of Prey by Oracle
yet again, Savant on technical staff, Creote as a bodyguard. Recently,
Savant has appeared in a meeting with the Calculator to have faked his
breakdown to infiltrate Oracle's operation. However, it is later
apparent in a meeting with Oracle and Batman that he is a double-agent
for the Birds of Prey, to feed Calculator information that would
ultimately allow the Birds to successfully fake the death of Oracle. The
brief encounter with Batman revealed that neither of them has forgotten
their previous hostility towards the other.

The New 52

In The New 52 a character named Savant is seen as a member of Amanda
Waller's new Suicide Squad. As part of an effort to weed out the weak
link in the group, the candidates are tortured, with Savant eventually
cracking under the pressure and betraying the group. He is dragged away
and seemingling killed, but his fate is left uncertain. He appears on
the cover of issue six, confirming that he has survived and will be part
of the new Squad tasked with tracking down Harley Quinn


Footnotes

Category:Comics characters introduced in 2003 Category:Characters
created by Gail Simone Category: superheroes Category:
martial artists Category:Fictional hackers Category:Fictional vigilantes
Category:LGBT superheroes

 Birds of Prey Vol.1 #59 (November 2003)

 Birds of Prey Vol.1 #88 (January 2006)

 Birds of Prey Vol.1 #90 (March 2006)

 Birds of Prey Vol.1 #108 (September 2007)

 Birds of Prey Vol.2 #2 (August 2010)

 Birds of Prey Vol.2 #3 (September 2010)

 Birds of Prey Vol.2 #4 (October 2010)

 Suicide Squad Vol.4 #1 (November 2011)
