SCARAB is an American comic book limited series written by John Smith
and published by the Vertigo imprint of , featuring a superhero
called Scarab.

It ran for only eight issues between November 1993 and June 1994,
although the character later reappeared in 's Justice Society of
America series.


Fictional character biography

Louis Sendak is a 78-year-old man and a retired superhero. A green door
in his house leads to an other-worldly labyrinth to which his father
would often go during Louis' childhood to collect strange, alien items.
One of these items was the Scarabaeus, which latched on to Louis in 1941
and transformed him, giving him superpowers which he used to become the
superhero Scarab.


Publication history

Vertigo series

The series came about when John Smith asked Stuart Moore for his ideas
about a possible reboot of Doctor Fate for 's Vertigo imprint and
giving the imprint its own interpretation of 's Golden Age history and
characters. Smith's proposal was deemed "too extreme" for an established
character and was asked to rework the concept into an original creation,
which became Scarab. Scarab was subsequently cut down from an
ongoing series to a limited series, with pencils by Scot Eaton and
inks by Mike Barreiro, which ran for eight issues in 1993 and 1994.

Crossover

Two Indigo Prime agents, Dazzler and Creed, appeared in Scarab #7 & 8
as a way to end the series due to the problems that Smith had
encountered with writing it. Smith explained that "by that time I was
probably just so sick of the thing I thought — 'Fuck it. I'll rip off my
own story' — and stuck in Indigo Prime as a lazy way out.".

JSA

In JSA Secret Files #1, the book that began the new JSA series in
1999, James Robinson and David S. Goyer referred to Sendak. Wesley Dodds
asked the Gray Man to contact the old man for help finding the baby who
would become the new Doctor Fate. In issue #1 of JSA, Louis appeared
in uniform at the funeral of Wesley Dodds and later told the JSA members
some of his history, including that he "dropped out of sight after '44".
The character then appeared in JSA #16 and 18, in a storyline written
by Goyer and Geoff Johns.


Notes

