SECRET (GRETA HAYES) is a fictional character, a superheroine in the 
Comics universe.


Fictional character biography

Secret first appeared in a one-shot comic, part of the Girlfrenzy fifth
week event, by Todd Dezago and Todd Nauck called Young Justice: The
Secret, in which Robin, Impulse, and Superboy helped her to escape from
the DEO (Department of Extranormal Operations) agents who were holding
her against her will. Secret was incorporeal, able to take on a variety
of appearances, and is referred to as "the mist girl" or "the bottle
girl" by the various agents who pursue her throughout the run of Young
Justice.

Eventually, her origin was revealed: Secret was once an ordinary girl
named Greta, whose adoptive brother Billy killed her as part of his plan
to become the supervillain Harm. Because of the manner of her death,
Greta remained stuck on this plane of existence, a gateway between the
living and the dead. Billy himself, after attacking the team, died when
his own father shot him. Billy returned during the Day of Judgment
storyline, as the entirety of Hell had been evacuated. He again battled
the team, using the substance of Secret.

Secret joined Young Justice along with Wonder Girl and Arrowette. She
was often referred to as "Suzie" because her real name was unknown at
the time. Secret became good friends with the two girls, and was often
portrayed as shy. She nursed a crush on Robin throughout the series, and
often defended his actions and followed his leadership without doubt.
She also expressed jealousy of Spoiler, Robin's girlfriend, to the point
where the pair of them had a full-out battle across Gotham City, that
was stopped by the combined efforts of Red Tornado and Robin.

In an alternate reality, Secret's powers had been taken on by Billy.
Ironically, Billy fought for what he perceived as justice in this form.

During the Sins of Youth storyline, a temporarily adult Secret, with
the aid of Deadman, chased down Teekl, the feline familiar of the
villain Klarion the Witch Boy. Surprising her age-altered friends, she
caused Klarion to back down by threatening to kill Teekl. When undoing
everything he had done, Klarion insisted that it was everyone or
nothing. Secret didn't want to change back, but was persuaded by Robin,
who promised to always be there for her. As predicted by the nearby hero
Merry Pemberton, this would later cause many problems. Secret would even
go so far as to physically threaten Spoiler.

During the time when Hal Jordan tried to mentor Secret, she visited her
father in jail. Under the mental influence of Billy, her father rejected
her, leaving her more despondent than before.

Secret eventually gave in to the darkness in her nature at the behest of
Darkseid, whom she mistakenly called 'Doug Side'. During her time on
Darkseid's planet of Apokolips, Billy, possessing her father, launched
the body into one of the firepits, killing them both. Although Secret's
mentor, Hal Jordan had offered to step in and save Greta, as well as the
world, the current team advisor Snapper Carr rejected the offer,
preferring that the kids use Secret's turning evil as a 'learning
experience.' Tim was able to talk her down. In the last issue of Young
Justice, a disgusted Darkseid stripped her of her powers, leaving her an
ordinary, living girl, which was ironically just as she always wanted to
be.

She now attends the Elias School for Girls, along with Cassandra
Sandsmark and Cissie King-Jones.


Powers and abilities

As a ghost, Secret can fly, teleport, shapeshift, become ethereal, and
take souls to the "other side."


In other media

Television

[Secret comes to Zatanna's aid in Young Justice.]

-   Secret appears in the Young Justice episode "Secrets" voiced by
    Masasa Moyo. She is first seen watching Artemis and Zatanna while
    the two girls are visiting Manhattan on Halloween night, and
    attempts to help them when Harm attacks with the Sword of Beowulf.
    After the two girls are kidnapped by Harm, Secret rescues Zatanna by
    ripping the duct tape gag from her mouth, allowing her to access her
    spellcasting abilities. Zatanna and Artemis eventually learn that
    Secret is Harm's younger sister, whom he murdered in order to cut
    himself off from any emotional attachments. After the two heroines
    defeat Harm, Greta vanishes into the afterlife, with Zatanna
    promising to give her a proper burial. In this appearance, Secret is
    only able to communicate by repeating the phrase "Secret". Artemis
    learns that Greta draws her name from the House of Secrets, an
    establishment across the street from the Hayes family's backyard.
    Artemis muses that the building's neon sign, specifically "secret",
    the only part of it not burned out, was likely the last thing she
    saw before being murdered by her brother.

Miscellaneous

-   In Teen Titans Go!_ #48, Killowat stays in the Titans universe for
    some time. He came into their world when Raven heard his cry for
    help from his dimension and pulled him into her dimension. Now Raven
    thinks she found a way to send him back, but she makes a mistake and
    sends her to a different universe. When trying to refix her mistake,
    Raven brings the Herald and they open many portals together. Secret
    was featured in one of the portals to another Earth. She does not
    have any lines in the comic.

