SERAPH is a  superhero from Israel. He first appeared in Super
Friends #7 (October 1977), and was created by E. Nelson Bridwell and
Ramona Fradon, art by Bob Oksner and some lettered by Milt Snapinn.


Fictional character biography

CHAIM LEVON is a Jewish school teacher who wields mystical power. He
helps Superman dismantle a bomb in Israel and free the Wonder Twins
after they were brainwashed. He had a few missions as a solo fighter. As
a member of the Global Guardians, he helped Superman retrieve an ancient
artifact.

He remained with the Global Guardians for a few years, but declined an
offering from the Queen Bee of Bialya, since he was Jewish and Bialya
was an Islamic state. For a while, Seraph fought solo, trying to think
of ways to revive the Global Guardians. Finally, Doctor Mist called him
to Bialya to rescue the Global Guardians. The mission was successful.

The team later confronts Doctor Mist's enemy Fain Y'onia. Thunderlord
and Bushmaster die during separate confrontations with enemy. Seraph
helps Rising Sun, Owlwoman, and Olympian create the New Global
Guardians, placing himself as leader. Seraph also supervises the care of
Tuatara who is in a coma as the result of the battle against Fain. He
assists in erecting statues to his fallen friends. 

His current status is unknown.


Powers and abilities

His powers are primarily derived from various mythic artifacts he
believes were handed down to him by historic figures chronicled in the
Torah.

He wears the ring of Solomon that gives him wisdom and allows him to
teleport short distances, and the mantle of Elijah that protects him
from harm. The Staff of Moses can extend to whatever length he needed,
and can transform into a serpent and manipulate water. Additionally he
sports long hair which he believes grants him super strength like
Samson. He apparently can request spectacular miracles from "a higher
power" as he needs them. For instance, in a Pre-Crisis adventure, he was
battling villains who threatened to blow up a desalination plant while
several children were being held hostage with the villains threatening
to kill them. With no alternative, Seraph personally beseeched this
higher power to temporarily stop the flow of time. Although the villains
shot at their hostages, the request was granted and all time stopped
except for Seraph who disarmed the bomb and covered the children with
his cloak to protect them from the weapons fire before allowing time to
resume and defeat his enemies.

