The SHADE (RICHARD SWIFT) is a comic book character developed in the
1940s for National Comics, first appearing in the pages of Flash Comics
in a story titled "The Man Who Commanded the Night", scripted by Gardner
Fox and illustrated by Hal Sharp. Debuting as a villain, the Shade
was best known for fighting against two generations of superheroes, most
notably the Golden Age and Silver Age versions of the Flash. He
eventually became a mentor for Jack Knight, the son of the Golden Age
Starman Ted Knight, a hero the Shade had also fought.

Though initially portrayed in the Golden Age comics as a thief with a
cane that could manipulate shadows, the character was reinvented in 1994
as a morally ambiguous Victorian era immortal who gained the ability to
manipulate shadows and his immortality from an unexplained mystical
event. In 2009, the Shade was ranked as IGN's 89th Greatest Villain of
All Time.


Fictional character biography

The 'Shade' draws his alias and source of power from Dante Alighieri's
epic poem The Divine Comedy, specifically its first book, "Inferno",
which describes the Nine Rings of Hell. This poem is the most cited
depiction of Hell, and the various characters in the story referred to
as "the Shade" are references to the perpetual darkness of Hell itself.
The comic book villain "The Shade" uses his power of perpetual night to
cast a blanket of darkness over various parts of the world. In darkness,
evil triumphs.

Pre-Crisis

The Shade was introduced in Flash Comics #33, as a villain for the
original Golden Age Flash. He was portrayed as a thief who could
manipulate the shadows with a magical cane. He fought both the Golden
Age Flash and his Silver Age counterpart Barry Allen. He was a member of
several supervillain teams, including the Injustice Society. Shade was
one of three villains used for the first meeting of the two heroes in
the famous "Flash of Two Worlds" story, which reintroduced the Golden
Age Flash to the Silver Age. He was jailed along with the Wizard and
Fiddler. In the "Crisis on Earth-S" story (Justice League of America
#136) he is one of King Kull's agents positioned on Earth-S to wipe out
humanity there. With Doctor Light he causes perpetual night and darkness
on either side of the planet, but is met by Bulletman and Hawkman.

Post-Crisis

The Shade returned in print in 1986, as a member of the Wizard's new
incarnation of the Injustice Society. The Shade's next appearance was in
a flashback story in Secret Origins #50 (1989), which presented a
post-Crisis retelling of "The Flash of Two Worlds".

Post Zero Hour

After Zero Hour, the Shade's origin was changed drastically. The Shade
was retconned to an English gentleman named Richard Swift, a young man
in the year 1838. One night in London, Swift is trapped amidst an
unexplained mystical tragedy, which killed 104 people. The most
immediate effect on him is the permanent loss of his memories prior to
the incident. Conincidentally, a passerby named Piers Ludlow offers to
take in Swift while he recovers. The whole affair is a setup; the Ludlow
family is in fact a band of killers and swindlers, who have grown
wealthy killing their wealthy business partners and then kill a vagrant
in the vicinity to give the impression of a failed robbery/homicide.
Before they can make Swift their next scapegoat, he reflexively
unleashes his shadows, killing all the present Ludlows. Only a young
pair of twins, absent from the excursion, survive. The following evening
Swift meets one of his true friends, the author Charles Dickens.

Decades later, Swift is ambushed by Rupert Ludlow, one of the surviving
twins. Ruport and his sister have been plotting revenge for years, going
so far as to raise their children as future assassins. Though grievously
injured, Swift manages to kill Ludlow, as his shadow power has made him
both immortal and resistant to injury. Afterward, he leaves England and
starts a career as an adventurer/assassin/observer on life, which spans
whole continents and leads him to many adventures. While traveling, he
meets Brian Savage (Scalphunter) and visits Opal City for the first
time. He establishes himself in Opal, acquiring real estate and
generally living well, even encountering Oscar Wilde. During his
journeys, he meets a similar immortal born of the same incident and
bearing his same powers, a dwarf by the name of Simon Culp, who becomes
his mortal enemy.

During all of the Shade's escapades, he is pursued by the Ludlows, whom
he kills by the dozens. He is nearly killed by one Ludlow, Marguerite
Croft, when he falls in love with her in Paris during the thirties. She
tries to kill Shade with poison, but is unsuccessful. Shade survives and
is forced to kill Marguerite when she confesses that though she loves
him, her loyalty to her family would force her to make more attempts on
his life. This leaves Shade with a sense of general depression and the
feeling he could never love again. Because of this and the death of
Brian Savage, he resumes his activities as an assassin.

During World War II, he leaves America to defend England, and fights
Simon Culp again. An exploding bomb causes Culp's body to fuse inside
Shade's body. Unaware of this, the Shade return to Keystone City. This
was the time of the Golden Age of Heroes, and of them all he chooses Jay
Garrick, the first Flash, as his adversary. During this time, Culp is
able to subtly affect the Shade's behavior, even able to take over
Shade's body completely when that latter is tired.

When the Flash retires in the 1950s, a new hero called the Spider takes
his place. Shade investigates the Spider's background and discovers he
is both a criminal (using his role to get rid of the competition) and a
Ludlow by birth. Ludlow's move to Keystone City was part of his plan to
kill the Shade. Shade instead kills the Spider, and rescues Flash and
his wife from a murder attempt.

During the 1960s Shade briefly teams up with Doctor Fate to take down
one of Culp's criminal ventures, a mystic organization called the Wise
Fools, who wished to repeat the ritual that created him by summoning a
wild, uncontrolled bubble of shadow (actually Culp's shadow, separated
from the Shade by Culp). Unaware that Culp's consciousness is actually
within the Shade, he and Dr. Fate destroy the Wise Fools operation and
throw the bubble into an empty dimension (where it continues to grow in
power and size). This was all part of Culp's larger plan, one which
almost culminates in the destruction of Opal City.

Starman

James Robinson gave the character a starring role in his new Starman
series in 1994. In the first story arc, Sins of the Father, Jack
believes Shade to be his enemy when he kidnaps Jack's father, retired
Starman Ted Knight, on the orders of the senile Mist, who wishes for a
final showdown. Shade later betrays the Mist by allying himself with the
O'Dare Family, a clan of police officers who assist Jack in memory of
their father Billy O'Dare, a policeman who had often assisted the
original Starman. Shade, with the O'Dares, assaults the Mist's hideout
and rescues Ted Knight. Shade befriends the family's "black sheep", Matt
O'Dare.

Much of the Shade's past is revealed through journal entries included in
the Starman comics, including the flashback issues called "Tales of
Times Past". They often deal with different Starmen, including Jack's
father Ted, as well as other characters from the Starman mythos such as
Brian Savage. There were a total of 10 "Times Past" issues in the
80-issue series. "Excerpts" from the Shade's journal often replaced the
Starman letters column, frequently giving additional background
related to the story or background into Shade's motivations. These
excerpts are written as prose, as opposed to a more traditional comic
style, with occasional illustrations, and as journal entries being
written by the Shade himself at different points in his existence.

Shade has an active part in an adventure of Jack's involving a demon
hidden within a poster that can snatch innocent people and drag them
into Hell. Shade does not like Merritt, the human guardian of the
poster, who has gained immortality for his protection of it, and was the
inspiration for Wilde's The Picture of Dorian Gray. In a fight for
possession of the poster, Matt O'Dare is dragged within and Shade
follows. Inside the poster, Shade, Jack and Matt separately agree to
sell their souls in exchange for the liberation of all the souls
contained within. The demon, unable to accept a selfless deal, is forced
to release everyone (but takes Merritt's soul instead). Matt decides to
turn over a new leaf and put his crooked past behind him. Shade assists
him in his efforts, influenced by the revelation O'Dare is the
reincarnated lawman Scalphunter, an old friend.

A particularly important point in the life of Shade comes when he meets
the demon-lord Neron. Neron offers, as he has to many supervillains
before, to augment Shade's power. Shade sees little use in Neron's
offer, as he has no need to increase his already substantial wealth, he
sees no way of heightening his shadows' power, and is already immortal.
Neron, angered by his rejection, swears vengeance against Shade.

Over the years the Ludlow attacks have dwindled. This lasts until the
wife of the last Ludlow calls him to talk her husband out of attempting
an attack that would certainly cost him his life. Shade talks Ludlow out
of pursuing his family's vendetta, burying a legacy of hate that has
lasted more than one hundred and fifty years.

Another notable point during the series' run came when the Godwave
struck the  universe, depowering almost all superheroes. In a
confrontation between Starman, Matt O'Dare, Green Lantern, and The
Infernal Doctor Pip, in which Pip almost blows up a large section of an
Opal skyscraper, Shade appears at the last minute and draws Pip into the
Darklands, which serve as his power source, before the bomb can
explode.

At various times, Culp is able to take control over or subtly influence
Shade. At one point, Culp takes full control to talk to Jack, in the
process making a mistake about the name of a Wilde story. Around the
time Jack returns from space in the "Stars, My Destination" story arc,
Culp is able to assume full control over Shade's body for an extended
period of time and imprison or neutralize most of Opal City's heroes in
a bid to loot and destroy Opal - with no other motive than to destroy
what Shade loves most. Gathering an army of villains whom Jack has
battled over the course of the series, Culp absorbs Shade's powers, in
addition to the shadow force Shade and Dr. Fate had exiled decades
before, to cast a spell allowing him to trap Opal City in an
impenetrable bubble of shadow and force a confrontation with the city's
heroes. Many of the supervillains helping Culp have been gathered by
either Neron, the still-vengeful daughter of the Mist, or one of the
last Ludlows in existence, the son of the false hero the Spider. This
story is the climax of the series, told in the "Grand Guignol" arc.

Shade eventually is able to cast out Culp, losing his shadow powers in
the process. However, Culp underestimates the Shade, and is tricked into
allowing a small shadow imp loyal to Shade to be absorbed into his own
shadow, leading to a battle of wills in which Shade draws all the
darkness into himself, leaving Culp powerless. Culp attempts to buy his
freedom by threatening the younger Mist, but is killed by the elder
Mist. This is a turning point for Shade, as he now has freedom of
choice, and is able to decide whether he wishes to remain a villain or
become a true hero. He is present at the final showdown with the Mist
and leaves the building with Ralph Dibny, Jack, and Theo Kyle
Knight.

Post-Starman

Since the end of the Starman series, the Shade has made cameo
appearances in several comic series, including Green Arrow and JSA
and was listed alongside magical-based villains such as Felix Faust and
Circe. He also has a brief appearance in 's Brave New World in 2006.
During the Infinite Crisis, he is seen using his powers to help Opal
citizens by protecting the buildings they are in (though, in a remark
full of his trademark cynicism, he comments he is not doing it to save
the citizens themselves, but, rather, he is "saving the architecture").

He shows up in Robinson's Justice League: Cry for Justice, waiting for
his old rival Jay Garrick in his home. He informs Garrick that the
insane supervillain Prometheus has ordered a series of attacks on
various superheroes (including Batwoman, Barry Allen, Crimson Avenger,
and Stargirl) in order to distract them from a sinister master plan.
Shade accompanies Jay to the JLA Watchtower in order to warn the other
heroes of the impending doom. He and Jay arrive at the Watchtower
just as Prometheus (who had disguised himself as Freddy Freeman and
defeated the entire League) attempts to escape. Though Jay is easily
floored, the Shade proves difficult to defeat (as he is technically not
a "hero", meaning Prometheus has no file on how to stop him), and
ultimately ends up stopping Donna Troy from killing the supervillain
after he has been beaten into submission. The Shade later creates a
portal that gives Green Arrow access to Prometheus' otherdimensional
lair, where the archer kills Prometheus in revenge for Star City,
the dismemberment of his former protege Red Arrow, and the death of Red
Arrow's daughter.

During the Blackest Night, Shade is in a relationship with Hope O'Dare,
and claims that he is in love with her. After a night of sex, Shade and
Hope are confronted by David Knight, reanimated as a Black Lantern.
David rips out Shade's heart, but, due to his powers, he survives,
unable to be killed and resisting the call of a black ring that seeks to
turn him into another undead. After David threatens to kill Hope and
later Jack, an enraged Shade uses his powers to trap the Black Lantern
within the Shadowlands after decrying the Lantern as a mockery and a
fake, saying he has "no light of his own", and uses his own heart as a
channel to bind and banish him. Afterwards, Hope admits that she loves
Shade as well, and they depart from the scene of the battle.

Shortly after the events of "Blackest Night", the Shade is approached by
Hal Jordan and Barry Allen, and he takes them to the Ghost Zone where
they find the rotting corpse of Prometheus.

It was announced by Robinson in 2010 that a solo Shade series was then
in development. The series, written by Robinson and drawn by Cully
Hamner, launched in late 2011 and dealt with Shade and his descendants,
flashing back to various points in his life as he travelled the globe
trying to find who is behind a plot to kill him.

During Brightest Day, Jay Garrick arrives at the Shade's home with
Doctor Mid-Nite, Sebastian Faust, and Wilat to see if he can help
track down the missing Obsidian, who possesses abilities similar to
those of the Shade. After entering the house, the JSA members find
Obsidian and Doctor Fate standing over the Shade's comatose body.
Obsidian, now possessed by a cosmic entity known as the Starheart, tells
the heroes that the Shade would have told them his "secrets", and that
the Starheart commanded that he and Fate silence him. Following the
defeat of the Starheart, Congorilla mentions that the Shade has been
missing since his assault at the hands of Obsidian, and that nobody has
been able to contact him.

Shade's disappearance is explained shortly after this, when it is
revealed that he had been captured and brainwashed by Eclipso.
Realizing that Shade could turn the tide of the battle, Saint Walker
sends the Atom and Starman inside his body to fight off the effects of
Eclipso's brainwashing. The heroes narrowly manage to free the
Shade's mind, and he turns against Eclipso and ultimately helps the
Justice League defeat the villain once and for all.

New 52

In a twelve issue series  after surviving an assassination attempt
the Shade travels the world to uncover the people behind it. Along the
way he deals with his past before the shadows, as well as the encounters
he had with his descendants through the years. It is also explained how
he first met Culp, and exactly how he gained the shadow powers.

Possible futures

During the Starman story arc "Stars, My Destination" Jack is thrown by
a shadowy corridor created by a future Shade across time and space into
a future where Shade's powers overtake him due to a disease that Culp
had infected him with during their final battle. His shadow begins
expanding into the universe and threatens areas protected by the Legion.
Rescuing him, the future Shade explains how Jack may be able to stop it
from ever happening by using his cosmic rod on him in the past. He later
opens another time portal to allow Jack to journey across time again to
reach his destination, Throneworld. In the final issue of Starman,
Jack apparently is able stop the disease before it has the chance to
affect Shade; whether this actually changes the future is never
revealed.

Starman Annual #1 shows a possible future for Shade as the protector
of a Utopian planet thousands of years from the present. As with the
current Shade, he enjoys telling tales of his past. The planet's
technology and possibly the planet itself seemed to be made almost
entirely out of Cosmic Rod technology inspired by Starman and his
legacy.


Powers and abilities

Shade is at present one of the best, if not the ultimate, channeler of
the power of the Darklands, a quasi-sentient, extra-dimensional mass of
malleable darkness. He can use it for various effects, both as an
absence of light and a solid substance: he can summon and control
"demons", summon and dispel shields and areas of complete darkness,
create all kinds of constructs out of shadows, transport himself and
others through it over great distances, and can, if necessary, use it as
a prison dimension. The darkness itself can be dispelled by sufficiently
bright blasts of light or energy. Eventually, his experience with the
shadows allows him to create corridors through time. The shadows have
also granted Shade agelessness and immortality. Dr. Fate once remarked
that even The Spectre would have serious difficulty dealing with the
Shade, possibly due to the origin of his powers (the former realm of a
divine entity on par with God). He is heavily resistant to damage, as
seen when a demolition bomb falls on him, leaving him only slightly
dazed. Even with his heart torn out of his chest by Black Lantern David
Knight, he remained alive and unable to die.

His only weakness (if it can be called such) is the fact that if he
loses his shadow, he becomes vulnerable. However, this can only occur if
a survivor from the same event in 1838 drains him of it, or in the event
of a light strong enough to completely surround him, to the point that
he is unable to cast a shadow.


Character inspiration

Charles Dickens' story The Old Curiosity Shop features an English rake
also named Richard, and a dwarf named Quilp. In continuity, it is
suggested that Shade's story inspired Dickens to write The Old
Curiosity Shop. James Robinson has stated that he drew some inspiration
for the Shade's mannerisms and speech patterns from the British stage
and screen actor Jonathan Pryce.


Other versions

-   On Earth-33, there is a magician called Shade, with the same powers
    as the main universe Shade. He is a member of the League of
    Shamans.
-   The Shade (possibly of Earth-3). An alternate version of the heroine
    Nightshade, she shares with him his namesake and all his powers, and
    she wears a top hat and a cane. She's killed by Eve of the Shadows,
    another Nightshade counterpart. The possibility exists that this
    Shade is actually a female version of Shade from the gender-reversed
    world Earth-11.


In other media

Television

-   The Shade first appeared in the two-part Justice League episode
    "Injustice For All" voiced by Stephen McHattie. This version's
    powers are a product of his staff, much like that of his
    pre-Robinson years. In his first appearance he is a member of Lex
    Luthor's Injustice Gang. In "Fury" Shade appears as a member of
    Aresia's Injustice Gang. In "Secret Society" Shade is recruited into
    Gorilla Grodd's Secret Society. By this time, he is skeptical of its
    success due to seeing such efforts fail twice in the past. He is
    attracted to Giganta, who seems to return his affection. During this
    time, he has learned martial arts and is able to hold his own in a
    confrontation against Batman (if only briefly). When Grodd's Secret
    Society is defeated by the Justice League in a football field in
    front of thousands of people, Shade states "I knew this wouldn't
    work" before attempting to flee and being stopped by Batman.
-   In the Justice League Unlimited series, Shade joins a fourth
    anti-Justice League organization, Gorilla Grodd's new Secret
    Society, later taken over by Lex Luthor. The Shade appears for the
    last time in the series in the episode "Alive", where he sides
    against Luthor during the mutiny led by Grodd. During the mutiny,
    Shade and the other villains that opposed Luthor are frozen by a
    turncoat Killer Frost.

