SHADOW LASS is a fictional comic book superheroine appearing in books
published by . She first appeared in Adventure Comics vol. 1
#365 (February 1968), and was created by Jim Shooter and Curt Swan.


Fictional character biography

Her real name is TASMIA MALLOR and her homeworld is Talok VIII. She has
the power to project darkness. Like all Talokians native to Talok VIII,
she has dark blue skin and pointed ears. The Talokians of Talok III such
as Mikaal Tomas have light blue skin. She and her cousin Grev (Shadow
Kid) received their powers from their ancestors, whose spirits reside in
a cave on Talok VIII (Talokians practice ancestor worship). As her
ancestors before her from the past thousand years, Tasmia is the
hereditary shadow champion of Talok VIII. Her 20th century ancestors,
Lydea Mallor and Lyrissa Mallor, were also shadow champions and members
of the interstellar police force L.E.G.I.O.N.

Her cousin Grev, who also wielded the shadow power thanks to his
bloodline, went on to join the Legion Academy as Shadow Kid, though
aware that he could never join the team while she was an active member
(Due to the LSH rules regarding duplication of powers), he hoped to be
better prepared to protect Talok in Tasmia's absence.

Shadow Lass joined the Legion after her homeworld was invaded by the
Fatal Five. She helped the Legion to defeat them. After joining, she
became romantically involved with Lar Gand and eventually married him
after he was mortally wounded fighting the Time Trapper as part of the
conspiracy to avenge Superboy's death at the Trapper's hands. Their
marriage was rocky for many years despite their strong feelings for each
other, and Tasmia went into mourning when Gand died. The mourning was
temporary, as he returned to her, inhabited briefly by the Time
Trapper's essence, until a cataclysmic battle erased the Trapper from
existence and completely rewrote reality.

1994 Reboot

In 1994, after the Zero Hour event, the Legion of Superheroes continuity
was restarted. In this storyline, Shadow Lass used the codename Umbra
and exhibited a much more aggressive and businesslike attitude. While
Umbra never became involved with the Post-ZH reimagining of Lar Gand,
she did make several attempts to garner his attention, only to be
rebuffed.

Empowerment

Tasmia Mallor was the latest in a long line of Shadow Champions of Talok
VIII. At birth she was taken from her mother, the then-current Champion,
in a bid to ensure that no single accident or attack could ever claim
both of them, and saw her only seven times during her lifetime, all at
solemn ceremonies in which they were forbidden to speak. As she grew up,
she was raised by priests and was trained in combat and drilled in the
order of her bloodline. She loved it.

Finally, one day, her mother was killed in battle and she was brought
before the leaders of Talok VIII's twelve tribes - the only time they
would ever congregate peacefully - before entering the Shadow Cave,
where she met the spirits of her mother and the other prior Champions.
After they chastised her for never wondering how her mother died, she
took to heart their counsel to protect Talok VIII (but not their warning
against egocentrism) and they told her to Go In Power.

On leaving the cave, she found the inhabitants of Talok VIII on their
knees, waiting for a sign - which she provided when she let the Shadows
loose. After that, she became the Champion, using her position to give
orders to leaders and priests, all in maintenance of the Old Ways. This
lasted until the ship came.

The United Planets ship came in peace, proselytizing the benefits of
U.P. membership. Sent to greet the "invaders," she understood none of
it, and she set about dismantling the "hideous" ship and crew. Despite
their best efforts, she caused an explosion that caused the ship's
landing gear to collapse. After that, the priests (who had already been
harboring doubts about the "zealot") kept her drugged until UP entry
negotiations were complete. Profoundly disturbed by the cultural influx
and Talok's "captitulance", she was eventually "dismissed", and told to
study the galaxy to "open her mind."

Legion

She eventually made her way to Earth, and entered the Legion tryouts and
was accepted as UMBRA, although her curt attitude irritated Sensor. As
part of the Legion, she fought Mordru, and later played a key part in
saving Wildfire - despite, after her initial fierce compassion, being
disgusted at the thought of the forcible integration of his two original
souls.

Blighted

Far later, the Blight enslaved most of Earth, including all but a few of
the Legionnaires. Umbra was not among these escapees. When she was
freed, she began to have a mental breakdown, prompted not only by the
fact of her enslavement and what she'd been forced to do, but by the
fact that the Blight's touching of her mind had meant that she'd
enjoyed it. Shortly thereafter, she became one of the Legionnaires
lost through a space rift and catapulted into another galaxy.

There, she became harder and colder than ever in lieu of breaking down
completely and showing the fear that now guided her, while the voices of
her ancestors from the shadow became faint and hard to understand. Then
Saturn Girl tried to telepathically calm her, and it all went wrong - a
telepathic matrix over a whole planet interfered with her powers, and
the result left Saturn Girl in a coma, a shadow-creature fueled by Umbra
and Saturn Girl's combined pain and fear loose on the ship - and an
Umbra completely without pain or anxiety, leaving only anger and
arrogant self-confidence.

She went down to the planet, where she began to fight Singularity (a
Superman-like being), for whom the telepathic illusion which had caused
the trouble was being maintained (to keep him from causing trouble on
his race's real planet). When Ultra Boy and Monstress went down to get
her, she began to fight them too. Finally, she was knocked out by
Singularity while the Legion, having captured the shadow-creature and
realized what it was, knocked out the illusion causing Singularity to go
looking for his original planet. Then Brainiac 5 managed to restore
Umbra and Saturn Girl's minds, and Umbra finally broke down in a crying
heap.

Recovery

After this she finally began to heal from everything that had happened
to her - until, after they managed to return to UP space, her power
mysteriously cut out. To find out what had happened, she finally
returned to Talok VIII for the first time since her dismissal. There she
found a planet completely cloaked in shadow, and a shadow which knocked
her out. Shadow Maven, one of the priests who had trained her, found her
and told her that after her loss in the rift, they had believed her dead
and managed to empower her "distant cousin Grev" with the shadows
through the use of technology, and had him cloak the planet completely,
withdrawing from the United Planets.

Angry at the thought that just as she had accepted the galaxy Talok had
turned away from it, she went to confront Grev. The shadow gradually
leeched back to her, until she split open the suit Grev used to control
the shadow - and found a withered corpse inside, as he had been unable
to withstand being a conduit for the Shadow, while the suit ran on its
last programmed directives. She cast the shadow-cloak from the planet,
and spent some time there before returning to the Legion.

2004 Reboot

In 2004, the Legion continuity was again restarted. Shadow Lass has
appeared in this reimagining, however little has been revealed about
this version of the character. She is portrayed as a very aggressive
warrior. At one point, she was in a relationship with Karate Kid, but
they had broken up by the time the series started. She has been dating
Ultra Boy.

When the Legion visited Talok VIII, they were surprised at the degree of
favor Shadow Lass commanded, including a large banquet in her honor.
Tasmia explained that if the Shadow Champion did not accept such gifts,
people would see her as aloof. Nonetheless, this inspired Atom Girl to
suggest Shadow Lass run for Legion leader on a hedonism platform.

Tasmia also has a friendly rivalry with Grev, who in this continuity is
her brother, rather than cousin.

Post-Infinite Crisis | Retroboot Legion

The events of the Infinite Crisis miniseries have apparently restored
a close analogue of the Pre-Crisis Legion to continuity, as seen in "The
Lightning Saga" story arc in Justice League of America and Justice
Society of America, and in the "Superman and the Legion of
Super-Heroes" story arc in Action Comics. Shadow Lass is included in
their number, and is among the group of Legionnaires who help Superman
defeat the villainous Justice League of Earth in the "Action Comics"
storyline.

During the Justice League of Earth's xenophobic reign, Night Girl and
Shadow Lass worked with Timber Wolf and Lightning Lass to help thousands
of extraterrestrials escape Earth to their home planets via an
"underground" interstellar portal zone. Shady also debuts a reworked
version of her classic Grell-era bikini in the Action Comics arc, and
uses her shadow-casting powers in tandem with Night Girl's
only-in-darkness super strength.

Shadow Lass is shown prominently in the teaser image for the "Final
Crisis: Legion of Three Worlds" mini-series, using her powers to keep
Mordru and Saturn Queen in the dark.

In the first issue of "Final Crisis: Legion of Three Worlds", Shadow
Lass, along with fellow Legionnaires Phantom Girl and Lightning Lass,
rescue Mon-El from the Phantom Zone, where he had been imprisoned by
Earth Man and the villainous Justice League of Earth. Upon leaving the
Zone, Mon-El once again suffers the effects of lead poisoning, but as in
the past, is inoculated with an antidote created by Brainiac 5.

Recently in issue #2 of the new Legion comic, Shadow Lass appears to
have broken up with Mon-El, with no reason truly given. In #5, she is
seen in bed with the reformed xenophobe Earth-Man. When she found out
that Mon-El was chosen to be a Green Lantern, she felt a bit uneasy
about it. However Mon-El told her that even though he's part of the
Corps, the Legion and Earth will always be his family.


Powers and abilities

Shadow Lass in all her incarnations can cast darkfields preventing all
light from reaching an area from outside. These can either be complete,
effectively rendering useless all light sources within the area, or
hollow to allow the interior to be lit. She can also solidify these
fields, to use as a more direct weapon.

She is also an expert hand-to-hand combatant, and can see in complete
darkness (both her own and otherwise).


Equipment

As a member of the Legion of Super-Heroes she is provided a Legion
Flight Ring. It allows her to fly and protects her from the vacuum of
space and other dangerous environments.


In other media

-   Shadow Lass appeared in an episode of Justice League Unlimited
    titled "Far From Home".

