THE SHIELD is the name of several fictional patriotic superheroes
created by MLJ (now known as Archie Comics). Appearing fourteen months
before Captain America, The Shield has the distinction of being one of
the first superheroes with a costume based upon United States patriotic
iconography.

The name was used by MLJ/Archie for four characters. ' Impact
line, which were licensed versions of the Archie characters, also used
the name for several characters. In 2010,  announced plans to
integrate the Shield and other MLJ characters into the  Universe,
but in 2011 the rights to the characters reverted to Archie Comics. A
fourth Shield will be introduced with its own series in October 2015.


Publication history

The Shield first appeared in MLJ's Pep Comics #1 (cover-dated Jan.
1940). Writer Harry Shorten and artist Irv Novick created the character.
With the American populace reacting to the beginnings of World War II
and wartime patriotism stirring, the Shield debuted as the first
patriotically themed hero. He was soon followed by three other patriotic
comic characters: Captain America (December 1940), Minute-Man (Feb.
1941), and Captain Battle (May 1941).

In 1959, a new Shield, Lancelot Strong, appeared under the Archie
Adventure Series imprint in a series titled, The Double Life of Private
Strong. It was cancelled after two issues.

Red Circle Comics reintroduced Lancelot Strong in a new series titled,
Lancelot Strong: The Shield in June 1983. The series was retitled
twice, first with Shield-Steel Sterling in December 1983 and then with
Steel Sterling in January 1984. In July 1984, the series ended with
its seventh issue.

In 1984, Red Circle Comics also released a series starring the Joe
Higgins version of The Shield in a series titled Original Shield. It
lasted four issues.

In 1991, Archie Comics licensed their superheroes to  who
created an imprint called Impact Comics. The company launched a fourth
solo series, The Legend of the Shield. It featured two Shields, Joe
Higgins, who led the series for the first thirteen issues, and Lt.
Michael Barnes, his replacement. Barnes continued as The Shield until
the title ended in October 1992.

In 2015, Archie Comics announced The Shield's return in a new series
penned by Adam Christopher and Chuck Wendig. This version of the
character is a woman named Victoria Adams. The series will be published
under the Dark Circle Comics banner. It was originally set to be
released in April 2015 but was delayed until September 2015.


Joe Higgins

MLJ Comics

Fictional character biography

The origin story of The Shield appeared in Shield-Wizard Comics #1
(Summer 1940). He is really chemist Joe Higgins, the son of Lieutenant
Tom Higgins. Tom was working on a chemical formula for super-strength
which the Germans were after, and is slain by German saboteur Hans Fritz
in the Black Tom explosion, for which Tom was blamed. After Tom's death,
Joe continues to work on it while continuing his studies of chemistry.
Joe finally figures out the solution, which requires applying the
chemicals to certain parts of his anatomy (Sacrum, Heart, Innervation,
Eyes, Lungs, Derma), and exposing himself to x-rays. This gives him
super strength, the ability able to make great leaps, and
invulnerability. Joe uses the initials S.H.I.E.L.D. as his secret
identity. His white costume becomes the familiar colors under the
process. He becomes an FBI agent (whose secret identity is known only to
FBI Chief J. Edgar Hoover) after clearing his father's name, and fights
foreign agents and other threats to the U.S.

After a partnership with fellow G-Man, Ju-Ju Watson and girlfriend,
Betty, he is joined by a kid partner, Dusty Simmons, in Pep #11 in
1941. Dusty's father had been killed by foreign agents, and he is
adopted by Joe and given a costume. Both heroes wear their patriotic
costumes beneath their street clothes and change for action whenever the
need would arise. Dusty also partners with The Wizard's kid partner,
Roy, as the "Boy Buddies".

In Pep #20, Joe is called "The One and Only Shield" at the start of
the story and "The Original Shield" at the end of the story because of
the success of Captain America, another 1940's-era patriotic superhero.
In his first appearance, Captain America had a shield similar to the
main part of The Shield's costume, but it was changed to a round shield
for the second issue over accusations of plagiarism.

The Shield and Dusty were featured in the first crossover storyline in
American comic books. The storyline had them team up with the Wizard
(the headlining character from Top-Notch Comics) to stop the invasion
plot orchestrated by Moskovia (a fictional country made up of elements
from Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union).

The Shield was one of MLJ's most popular characters, even spawning a
club, the "Shield G-Man Club". He starred in Pep, and several other
MLJ titles: Shield-Wizard, Top-Notch Comics. But then a new
character arrived who would overshadow him: Archie Andrews. He would
take the Shield's cover spot on Pep, take his fan club, and cause the
end of the MLJ superheroes.

An older Joe Higgins appears in New Crusaders as the sole survivor of
the Brain Emperor's attack on his fellow Crusaders. He gathers their
teenage children to form a team dubbed "the New Crusaders".



The Red Circle Comics characters, aptly named "The Red Circle," were
again licensed by  and rebooted. During the Discord crisis a version
of the Shield character was seen helping Green Arrow and Black Canary,
performing crowd control. First appearing as a secondary character in
The Web, another former MLJ hero, the new Shield is Lieutenant Joseph
Higgins, stationed in Afghanistan, from where he tries to contact The
Web to find his missing father. On the same day however his crew
fall victim to Taliban terrorists, and Higgins is grievously wounded. To
save his life, he agrees to be subjected to secret government
experiments, after which an advanced, nanotech battle suit is merged to
his burned epidermis. The suit appears on his body at will and grants
him the same array of powers of the earlier incarnation, including
superhuman strength, limited flight and advanced sensory abilities. Due
to his severe injuries, the only major drawback is that if ever he tries
to remove the war suit permanently, his bodily functions could shut
down. Still fighting as the new, patriotic hero, he is again contacted
by The Web, accepting his request for help

The Shield also appeared in the 2010  mini series The Mighty
Crusaders.


Lancelot Strong

In June 1959, a new Shield was published by Archie that had no
connection to the previous version.

Joe Simon was asked by Archie to create characters for a new "Archie
Adventure Series" line of superheroes. Joe Simon created a new
Shield-type of superhero, whose real identity was Lancelot Strong, who
appeared in a new title, The Double Life of Private Strong. Joe Simon
put together a team of artists including Jack Kirby to work for him on
The Double Life of Private Strong.

Lancelot's scientist father developed a method to create a superhuman by
expanding the mind, which he used on his infant son. After his father
was killed by foreign agents, Lancelot was adopted by a farm couple and
raised as their son. Once he hit his teens, he discovered the truth of
his background and his powers: strength, flight, near-invulnerability,
vision powers, the ability to generate lightning, and a few more. His
father had created a patriotic costume for him, and he started off as
the new superhero, the Shield. He soon joined the Army, acting like a
Gomer Pyle-style country bumpkin, while leading a double life as the
Shield (hence the title of his comic).

In 1999, Archie formally assigned all rights to Lancelot Strong to Joe
Simon.


Bill Higgins

When Archie revamped their superheroes under their "Radio Comics/Mighty
Comics" line, a third Shield was introduced as Bill Higgins, son of the
original Shield. He would appear in the new Fly-Man #31, and becomes
one of the main founders of the Mighty Crusaders. It would be revealed
that his father was turned to stone by the villain, The Eraser, and Bill
was carrying on his father's work. Bill's 'powers', which seem to be
enhanced strength and limited invulnerability, were derived from his
costume. He would appear through the end of the Radio/Mighty Comics run.


Michael Barnes

When Legend of the Shield was revamped, Lt. Michael Barnes became the
new Shield. Although his predecessor was implied to be single, Barnes
was a married father with a young daughter. Barnes would continue as the
lead character until the series' 1992 cancellation and also appeared as
the Shield in the six-issue miniseries The Crucible, which was
intended to reinvent the Impact Comics line, but instead served only as
a finale, for various reasons, mainly low sales. Michael Barnes would
have been the star of the title The American Shield if Impact Comics
had continued publishing.


Victoria Adams

In 2015, Archie Comics rebranded their Red Circle Comics line under the
new Dark Circle Comics banner. The new Shield will debut in her own new
series titled The Shield in October 2015. Victoria Adams will be the
first female to take up the mantle of the Shield.

