The SILENT KNIGHT (BRIAN KENT) is a fictional medieval hero appearing in
comic books published by . The character first appeared in The
Brave and the Bold #1 (August 1955), and was created by Robert Kanigher
and Irv Novick. He was one of three historical fiction characters to
premiere in the first issue (the other two being Golden Gladiator and
the Viking Prince).


Fictional character biography

The Silent Knight is a young man named Brian Kent, living in
sixth-century Great Britain. At a jousting tournament, the evil Sir
Oswald Bane kills Brian's father Sir Edwin, claiming it to be an
accident. Before he dies, Edwin, a feudal lord, instructs Brian to
continue his rule and look after the people. Sir Oswald hears this and
sets Brian under the knightly training of Sir Grot, a friend of Edwin's.
Brian excels at his lessons, but fearing that Sir Oswald will kill him
if the boy becomes too good, Grot publicly derides the boy as an oaf.

While looking for one of Sir Oswald's prize hawks in the Forest
Perilous, Brian finds a trunk with a suit of silver armor, a sword, a
red helmet, and shield. He puts the armor on and discovers that it is a
perfect fit. He hears travelers being threatened by Sir Oswald's
men-at-arms, and comes to their aid, defeating the soldiers without
uttering a word. When asked his name, he stays silent to prevent the
soldiers from identifying him to Sir Oswald. Hence, he becomes known as
"the Silent Knight." He keeps the armor hidden in the Forest Perilous,
and hides his secret even from Sir Grot.

The Knight also fought outlaws and had adventures involving King Arthur
and the Knights of the Round Table. He also met the evil Morgaine le
Fey. Lady Celia who loved the Silent Knight never did suspect that he
was seemingly dull Brian.

Current status

The Silent Knight made a minor appearance during a time travel story in
All-Star Squadron #55. In the 1990s Hawkman series, Brian, with his
hawk-motif armor and trained falcon, was revealed to be a past avatar of
the Hawk-God. A further retcon in the 2000s Hawkman implied he was a
past incarnation of Hawkman Carter Hall. This has been confirmed in
Brightest Day #0. In Seven Soldiers: Shining Knight #1 (Aug 2005),
Sir Gawain is referred to in a caption as "the silent knight, attended
by his wondrous hawks." The Silent Knight appears in issue #10 of the
2000s revival of The Brave and the Bold, in which he assists a
time-traveling Superman to destroy a magic artifact. Superman has been
warned by Merlin not to let any harm befall the knight, and is pleased
to learn his name at the end of their adventure, as Superman's adopted
surname is Kent. This, and an "inexplicable kinship" felt by Brian imply
that he is an ancestor of Superman's adoptive father, Jonathan Kent.


Powers and abilities

The Silent Knight is a master of the knightly skills of tilting,
horsemanship, hawking, fencing, archery and chivalry. In his origin
story Brian's talent for sword fighting enables him to out-fight some of
the king's soldiers. In another story, called "The Sword in the Lake",
Brian demonstrates great strength when he dives to the bottom of a lake
in full armor to retrieve a necklace and come right back up again. He
also shows loyalty to the knightly code of conduct by never taking
unfair advantage of an opponent. For that reason he never uses a weapon
with a greater reach than his adversary's.

Brian's refusal to speak and let anyone know who he is under the helmet
does create some problems. One of those is that he is in love with the
Lady Celia. She sees only his public image as an oaf and loves only the
Silent Knight. She is of course completely unaware that Brian is the
Silent Knight and that is a difficult thing for Brian to deal with.

