The SILVER SORCERESS is a  character and member of the
Champions of Angor. She first appeared in Justice League of America
#87, (February 1971), and is an homage to the Scarlet Witch.


Fictional character biography

The Silver Sorceress, Blue Jay and Wandjina (a character based on
's Thor) come from an alternate Earth, the only survivors of a
nuclear holocaust. In their original appearance they come to Earth after
being manipulated into seeking revenge for the destruction of their
world against the Justice League. After initially mistaking each other
for villains, the two teams unite to fight the robots that originally
manipulated them both.

The Silver Sorceress and the Justifiers return in Justice League vol.
2 #2 (June 1987) as they attempt to destroy this Earth's stockpile of
nuclear weapons, before being confronted by the Justice League and the
Rocket Reds. Wandjina seemingly sacrifices himself to save innocent
people from a nuclear meltdown. It is later revealed all three were part
of a much larger super-team, all analogues of  heroes. The
Silver Sorceress and Blue Jay decide to remain on Earth.

Later, the Sorceress has the pleasure of meeting and rescuing one of the
few survivors of her world, a celebrity entertainer known as Mitch Wacky
(a parody of Walt Disney). He is one of, if not the most popular people
in Silver's old society, revered because he brings so much
entertainment. Mitch's weakness, the common flu, demonstrates essential
differences between Silver's worlds and the U, as they do not know how
to combat it. Mitch is soon cured. Silver helps the League confront and
battle the Extremists, robotic duplicates of the entities that have
ravaged her homeworld.

She remains with the team as an active member until her death at the
hands of Dreamslayer, one of the entities who had destroyed her old
world. Dreamslayer manages to take over the mind of Maxwell Lord, a
close friend and leader of various aspects of the Justice League. Using
Lord's persuasion powers, he takes over the mobile island of Kooey Kooey
Kooey, using it and Mitch Wacky as a base to rebuild the Extremists.
When Mitch is not needed anymore, he is brutally killed. Silver and the
League attack the island and its natives are brainwashed into fighting
back. Silver falls victim to the need not to hurt the innocent natives
and she ends up shot in the stomach with an arrow. As she lay dying, she
manages to subdue and entrap Dreamslayer, temporarily ending his threat.
The League members bury Silver Sorceress on Kooey Kooey Kooey island.


Powers and abilities

Silver Sorceress is a magic user of advanced abilities. While she had to
use a combination of magic and technology to create the original doorway
from Angor to that of the Justice League, she is later able to do so
with magic alone.


Other versions

-   In Justice League Europe Annual #2, the time-traveler known as
    Waverider visits the Justice League of Europe on his own mission and
    finds himself viewing an alternate, highly probable 'future'
    of Silver's. In it, she accidentally travels far back in time and is
    saved from a large predator by the over-enthusiastic hero known as
    Anthro. She is eventually returned to her timeline by a
    time-travelling Elongated Man.
-   In Showcase #63 (July-August 1966), the Inferior Five face a team
    of supervillains based on  Avengers. This team has a
    member named Silver Sorceress that is also based on 's Scarlet
    Witch; however, she is otherwise unrelated to the version
    from Angor.
-   Silver Sorceress makes a brief cameo appearance in issue #4 of the
    JLA/Avengers crossover miniseries.
-   A new version of the Silver Sorceress appears in Lord Havok and The
    Extremists #5. A denizen of Earth-8, she is called Anna and is the
    daughter of Doctor Diehard. She dies by the end of
    the limited-series. 

