SKYROCKET is a fictional superhero published by . She first
appeared in JLA #61 (February 2002), and was created by Kurt Busiek
and Tom Grummett.


Fictional character biography

LT. CELIA FORRESTAL was getting nowhere fast in the U.S. Navy. It wasn't
because she wasn't qualified. As a Navy Aviator, she could outmaneuver
anybody. But because of her gender and her race, her career remained
stalled as a training instructor. Looking for some perspective while she
considered leaving the service, she visited her parents, scientists and
owners of ARGO TECHNOLOGIES. Mr. and Mrs. Forrestal had developed a
personal harness that could absorb, convert and redirect energy. The
Forrestals conceived the harness as a tool for peace, but it also had
great potential as a weapon of mass destruction.

Scorpio

This invention, called an ARGO HARNESS, drew unwanted attention from a
mercenary group of terrorists-for-hire called Scorpio. Scorpio was a
well-equipped organization always on the look out for advanced
technology that could easily be weaponized. They attempted to steal the
Argo Harness, but during their attack, an untimely explosion killed the
Forrestals.

Argo Harness

Celia survived the explosion that killed her parents because she was
wearing the Argo Harness, and she later used it to capture some of the
Scorpio operatives who had caused their deaths. Acting on a suggestion
from Green Lantern Hal Jordan, who identified with her because of her
background as a pilot, she decided to continue crimefighting as the
superhero Skyrocket. [Skyrocket vs Dr. Polaris, art by Tom
Grummett]

Spinning her Wheels

Celia worked at a fast food joint in her hometown of St. Louis during
the day in order to pay for the equipment she need to maintain and
repair the Argo Harness. This was where Josiah Power found and recruited
her.

Power Company

After mulling over some serious reservations on her part, Celia decided
to join the Power Company, a corporate hero team, as a business partner.
Josiah provided her with a full technical support crew under CHARLIE LAU
to maintain the harness. Lau improves the machinery inside and out; for
example, eliminating its weakness to water. Josiah promises her that she
could do as much pro bono work as she wanted on the firm's dollar, as
it would be good publicity for the fledgling business. Her old nemesis
Doctor Cyber was seen watching her as she exited Power Company
headquarters after her first group mission. Skyrocket works with the
team through the series sixteen-issue run, coming into repeated conflict
with an interdimensional army that wishes to conquer earth through
corporate takeover and mystical means.

Ralph Jackson

It has recently been revealed that Sgt. Ralph Jackson is the grandfather
of CELIA FORRESTAL. Ralph led a battalion of African-American soldiers
in a furious attack on Nazi troops while serving in France during World
War II. Jackson was awarded the Silver Star and the Purple Heart for his
service, but was appalled to be find that prejudicial attitudes in the
United States had changed little in his absence.

Infinite Crisis

Operating in San Francisco, Skyrocket is one of several heroes who aids
in the efforts to prevent a global super-villain jailbreak.

One Year Later

In Action Comics #842, Skyrocket describes herself as somebody who
"used to be with the Power Company." In that issue and in 843, she is
part of a makeshift team of superheroes who had escaped the confines of
the 'Auctioneer'. His efforts had resulted in the kidnapping of most of
Earth's superhumans.

Skyrocket fights side by side with Nightwing, Firestorm, Superman Blue
Jay, Livewire, the Veteran and Aquaman 2. This grouping only results
because they had been stuck in the same energy imprisonment field as
Superman by the alien forces. For some time, during the groups
reconnaissance and intelligence gathering, a technologically created
energy field prevented them believing they could use their powers.

Once this field was destroyed, the team damages the Auctioneer's
spaceship and, holding his database hostage, blackmails the entity into
restoring everything and everyone stolen from Earth.

Due to a mistake on Livewire's part, most of the adventure is broaast
to every single television on Earth. Due to the Auctioneer wishing to
profit off the drama of the escape, many alien worlds also see every
step of the incident as well.

In Birds of Prey # 100, she is shown reading an invitation from Oracle
to become one of her operatives, having apparently returned to St.
Louis. What she is currently doing is unknown.

Celia apparently declined Oracle's offer, and was most recently shown as
still being with the Power Company. During a break-in at S.T.A.R. Labs,
the team is defeated by Doctor Impossible and a group of villains using
weaponry from New Genesis. In a later conversation, Mon-El mentions that
Skyrocket is in the hospital and has gone into shock from her injuries.

Following this, Celia appears as part of an all-female team of
superheroines created by Wonder Woman in order to repel a faux alien
invasion masterminded by Professor Ivo. After punching out a robotic
siren who was using her abilities to mentally incapacitate a group of
men, she remarks "Pretty girls making guys act dumb. It's just like high
school all over again".


Equipment

[Celia pensive]

-   Celia's armored suit is known as the ARGO HARNESS; it was invented
    by her parents, the elder Forrestals, for their company
    Argo Technologies.
-   The Argo Harness is an energy-transforming device that can absorb
    many kinds of energy, including heat, electromagnetism, and
    radioactivity, and either convert it into other forms of energy or
    store it for later use.
-   Skyrocket normally utilizes this stored energy as bolts of heat,
    kinetic energy, or directed electromagnetic fields.
-   She can use the harness to fly by repelling the planet's own
    electromagnetic field.
-   The Harness can recharge itself from virtually any kind of energy.
-   Any attack carried out against Celia with fire, radioactivity,
    electricity or any other form of excited particle will just make her
    more powerful.


Other versions

-   A villain using the name Skyrocket appeared in the animated TV
    series-based comic book Super Friends #4. This Skyrocket predates
    the mainstream comic version and was not only a supervillain but a
    European-American male.

