SOLOVAR is a fictional character, a sentient gorilla in the . The
character is the progressive leader of a race of gorillas that first
appeared as supporting characters of the Flash.


Character history

For many years, Solovar is the leader of Gorilla City, a hidden city of
hyper-intelligent gorillas. Renowned for his wisdom and psychic powers,
he is virtually unchallenged, except by the villainous Gorilla Grodd.
This rivalry is so great that, after Solovar is captured by humans
(playing dumb to keep his identity and origin secret), Grodd follows him
to Central City to learn the secrets of Solovar’s force-of-mind powers.
He succeeds in this, but the Flash captures him after Solovar escapes
and tells the Flash of Grodd.

The Flash helped the gorilla leader escape and became the first human to
learn of the city’s existence, and its location. This leads to a rivalry
between Grodd and the Flash, as well as an alliance between The Flash
and Solovar. Flash helped defeat Grodd many times.

Under Solovar’s guidance, Gorilla City is a technological utopia.
Eventually, he decides his people can no longer use their science to
hide from the human world. Believing that the world's ecological and
political problems cannot be solved by ignoring them, he opens his
city's borders to the world and asks for membership in the United
Nations. He advocates peace — among the gorillas and with humans — and
is behind two diplomatic overtures to the human world. The second tour
of the U.S., sadly, is cut short by his assassination by a lethal car
bomb. While a mysterious group calling itself the Human Supremacy
Movement takes credit for the act, it quickly made clear to the reader
that Solovar's assassination at the hands of human racists is in fact a
ruse concocted by the Simian Scarlet, a group of gorillas within Gorilla
City seeking to overthrow the ruling council. (The manipulators are
themselves manipulated by Gorilla Grodd).

Solovar is briefly succeeded by his nephew, Ulgo. With tensions between
humans and gorillas rising, the JLA is invited to Gorilla City to assist
in a diplomatic mission, only to fall victim to an ambush. In the heat
of battle, the gorilla army tests its new weapon on the heroes, a
"gorillabomb" that transforms humans into gorillas. While the JLA
retreat to their moonbase to find a cure, Prince Ulgo appears before the
United Nations to formally declare war on the human race.

However, he promises, there will be no bloodshed in the battle, and he
makes his point by detonating a gorillabomb in the auditorium. With the
entire UN assembly transformed both mentally and physically into
gorillas, the JLA act swiftly to minimize damage and loss of life. Alas,
saving the delegates uses up their only chance to change back into
humans, and so our transformed heroes must remain in their simian forms
until they can find another way to return to normal.

Not that they were allowed much time to do that; as the Martian
Manhunter telepathically learns, the gorillas are strategically
targeting several places around the globe, including Themyscira (Wonder
Woman's homeland), Atlantis (Aquaman's kingdom), Central City, Blüdhaven
(a suburb of Batman's Gotham City), Metropolis (where Superman lives,
one of the largest cities in the  Universe), and low Earth orbit
(Green Lantern's). The heroes split up and set out to neutralize the
gorilla army, end the human-gorilla war, and find a way to return to
normal.

Once the JLA have achieved their goals, Ulgo is later succeeded by
Solovar's son, Nnamdi.

During the Blackest Night, Barry Allen raced to Gorilla City to seek
aid from Solovar, not knowing of his death. Finding the city ravaged,
Allen assumed Grodd had attacked, only to discover Solovar had been
reanimated as a Black Lantern. Barry managed to temporarily stop him by
dragging his corpse through the air at superspeed while leaving it
outside the protective aura his body generated when he took passengers,
reducing Solovar's Black Lantern self to dust when he could not cope
with the friction he was being subjected to.


Other versions

Flashpoint

In the Flashpoint reality, Solovar was the original ruler of Gorilla
City until he was overthrown by Gorilla Grodd.


In other media

Television

-   Solovar first appeared in the Challenge of the Super Friends
    episode "Revenge on Gorilla City" voiced by Michael Rye. When
    Gorilla Grodd attacks Gorilla City with the Legion of Doom and
    mesmerizes the citizens, Solovar teleports himself to the Hall of
    Justice to seek help from the Super Friends.
-   Solovar appeared in an episode of Justice League voiced by David
    Ogden Stiers. He appears as the chief of security of Gorilla City
    rather than its king and does not appear to have the psionic powers
    of his comic book incarnation. He was pursuing Gorilla Grodd to stop
    him from launching nuclear missiles at the city. With the help of
    Flash and Green Lantern, he eventually took Grodd back to
    Gorilla City.
-   David Ogden Stiers reprises his role of Solovar in the Justice
    League Unlimited episode "Dead Reckoning." Solovar was seen
    fighting Gorilla Grodd's Secret Society when Gorilla Grodd plans to
    use an artifact stolen from the temple Deadman was living at in
    order turn all the humans into gorillas.

Video games

-   Solovar features in the video game Justice League Heroes voiced by
    Nick Jameson.

