SON OF VULCAN is the name of two comic book characters, one created by
Charlton Comics in 1965, the other by  in August 2005. Son of
Vulcan was one of the characters  purchased from defunct
Charlton Comics in 1983.


Johnny Mann

Charlton Comics

Son of Vulcan first appeared in Mysteries of Unexplored Worlds # 46
(May 1965), retitled Son of Vulcan with issue # 49, and was created by
writer Pat Masulli and artist Bill Fraccio. Charlton staff writer Joe
Gill would write most of his stories. Predating the Charlton "Action
Heroes" line, Son of Vulcan is not properly part of that group. His
final Charlton story, "The Second Trojan War" in Son of Vulcan # 50
(Jan. 1966, the last issue), was the first professional work of writer
and future  editor-in-chief Roy Thomas, with the previous
issue having seen the character being given a new and more ornate
costume designed by a young, cover-credited Dave Cockrum.

History

The original Charlton character was Johnny Mann, a scrawny but
courageous reporter for an international news syndicate who had lost a
leg while serving during the Korean War. Covering a bloody civil war on
the Mediterranean island of Cyprete, he complained aloud while standing
in the ruins of an ancient temple that the gods play with men's lives
while leaving them defenseless against the forces of war and crime.

Taking offense, the Roman gods transported him to Mount Olympus where he
was put on trial before Jupiter, all-powerful king of the gods, for his
impudence. The war god Mars argued for his immediate destruction, but
Vulcan, lame-legged god of fire and forge, spoke up in his defense, and
Venus, goddess of love, agreed with Vulcan. In the end, bonding with the
orphaned newsman over their similar disabilities, Vulcan agreed to adopt
Johnny and share with him god-like powers that would help him fight
injustice in the mortal world.

By calling on Vulcan's aid, Johnny would transform into a superhuman
demigod, whole again and mightily muscled and clad in indestructible
Roman-style armor and shield with the power to summon both fire and
powerful ancient weapons from his adopted father's forge. However, it
was the judgment of Jupiter that his powers could be removed from him at
any time if the gods ever decided he was unworthy of them. Mars often
plots against him to make him lose favor with Jupiter or destroy him and
was exiled from Olympus for this.

As the Son of Vulcan, Johnny had several adventures where he battled
both a jealous Mars and the Asian arch-criminal Dr. Kong (the so-called
"meanest man alive" who resembled a cross between Fu Manchu and Dracula)
but remained a little-known hero.



 has made very little use of Son of Vulcan. He appeared briefly in 
Challenge #9 where he was introduced into the  universe by the
aforementioned Roy Thomas and returned to take a more pivotal part in
the War of the Gods miniseries that followed the Crisis on Infinite
Earths fictional crossover only to be killed off in the last issue. In
2005  published a new Son of Vulcan miniseries whose title character
and series premise was unrelated to the original.

History

During the War of the Gods, the Roman gods wanted Son of Vulcan (now
known on Olympus as Halciber Filius, a Latinized version of his name,
and endowed with all their divine powers rather than just those of
Vulcan) to be their champion against the Greek gods' champion, Wonder
Woman, but he refused, so they chose Captain  in his stead. Son of
Vulcan investigated the cause of the war and met Harmonia, daughter of
the Greek god Ares, who was also investigating it, and they learned the
war was part of a plan by the sorceress Circe to gain absolute divine
power. Son of Vulcan and Harmonia fell in love, but the two eventually
died in battle and their souls were personally escorted by Vulcan
himself to the eternal paradise of Elysium.


Miguel Devante

Brief synopsis

Orphan MIGUEL "MIKEY" DEVANTE, 14, is taken hostage by Jason Woodrue
a.k.a. the Floronic Man at the Big Belly Burger in Miguel's hometown of
CHARLTON’S POINT. A relatively unknown hero named Vulcan tells Mikey to
free the other hostages while he battles the Floronic Man. Miguel stays
back after freeing the other hostages to ensure Vulcan is safe. Miguel
saves Vulcan from danger by chopping off Floronic Man's arm with
Vulcan's sword. Vulcan chooses Miguel to be his successor.

After their adventures, Miguel and the android Pandora later go to San
Francisco, where Miguel is seen talking to Beast Boy of the Teen Titans
and presenting himself as simply Vulcan. While he evidently did not
join the Titans during the One Year, he does appear in the line-up for
the new Titans East one-shot, scheduled for release in November, 2007.

Son of Vulcan was also in Infinite Crisis #6 as one of the
spellcasters who summon the Spectre at Stonehenge. Seeing as Miguel's
powers stem from a transferable Metagene virus it has yet to be revealed
why he was there.

He recently appeared in JSA Classified #19 written by his creator,
Scott Beatty. He is one of the competitors at Roulette's fight, but,
apparently, manages to survive and flee the scene.

Son of Vulcan was left badly injured, seemingly dead at the end of the
Titans East one-shot. Titans #1 revealed that he's still alive, but
in a coma.


Other versions

-   Darkseid once masqueraded as a Son of Vulcan knockoff named Janus,
    Son of Jupiter. As Janus he possessed great strength and the
    ability to fly. He also carried a supposedly indestructible shield
    and a high-tech mace. As Janus, Darkseid appeared as a handsome,
    blonde human. He first appears in Super Powers series 3 #3
    (Nov 1986).
-   In Grant Morrison's Animal Man storyline "Deus Ex Machina",
    Psycho-Pirate, while in Arkham Asylum, recreated characters removed
    from continuity. Son of Vulcan (or a Pre-Crisis version of him) was
    one of them. He appears as he originally did in Charlton Comics.
    Presumably, this character vanished from existence when the
    Psycho-Pirate's episode of madness ended, along with his colleagues.

