SPACE GHOST is a fictional character created by Hanna-Barbera
Productions and designed by Alex Toth for CBS in the 1960s.

Space Ghost is credited with being responsible for the popularity of
superhero cartoons in the 1960s.

In his original incarnation, he was a superhero who, with his teen
sidekicks Jan, Jace, and Blip the monkey, fought supervillains in outer
space. In the 1990s, Space Ghost was brought back as a host for his own
fictional late-night talk show, Space Ghost Coast to Coast, on Cartoon
Network and Adult Swim. In the 2000s, he was revamped as a serious
superhero once again in a mini-series by .


Television series

Space Ghost and Dino Boy

The original series debuted in 1966. In the original series, Space Ghost
was an intergalactic crime fighter from the Ghost Planet. He had the
ability to be invisible (via his belt), fly, and shoot various rays from
the powerbands on his wrists. Space Ghost would fight such recurring
supervillains as Moltar (a lava creature inside a metal suit), Zorak,
Black Widow, Metallus, Brak and Creature King with the help of his
sidekicks: Jan, Jayce, and their pet monkey, Blip. In one series of
cartoons, the villains teamed up as the council of doom (no link to the
legion of doom), and since they couldn't penetrate space ghosts shield
they exiled him to places where luckily he got help form other heroes
(ala space stars).In one episode Jan, Jayce, and Blip were aided by
MobyDick)

The original series shared time with an unrelated segment called Dino
Boy in the Lost Valley. During its original run, there were a total of
42 Space Ghost episodes and 18 Dino Boy episodes. The series ended in
1968, but remained in syndication during the 1970s. Space Ghost
was voiced by Gary Owens, who is best known for being the announcer for
Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In.

Space Stars

Twenty-two new Space Ghost segments appeared on Space Stars on NBC in
1981. The episodes introduced a new assortment of villains including an
evil version of Space Ghost named Space Spectre who came from an
alternate universe (this could be the home universe of the Jetsons,
because in space stars Astro was a member of a team the astromutts who
were led by Human space ace-also in the Jetsons universe George assumed
the role of spaceace-not to be confused with Saturday supercade onee).
As in the original series, Space Ghost often came to the aid of The
Herculoids and vice versa. They also frequently crossed paths with the
Teen Force, and it appeared that Jan and Teen Force member Kid Comet
were dating as well. Gary Owens reprised his role as Space Ghost.

Space Ghost Coast to Coast

The character Space Ghost hosts a talk show, Space Ghost Coast to
Coast, which began broaasting in 1994 on Cartoon Network. One-time
villains Zorak and Moltar were Space Ghost's sidekicks (with guest
appearances from many other old Space Ghost villains, most notably
Brak). The show spoofed late-night talk shows such as the Late Show
with David Letterman. Celebrities interviewed by Space Ghost included
Beck, Bill Nye, magicians Penn and Teller, Elvira, Hanson, Joel Hodgson,
Carrot Top, Jim Carrey, Jon Benjamin, Jon Stewart, Conan O'Brien,
Thurston Moore, Pavement, Adam West, Björk, Thom Yorke, "Weird Al"
Yankovic, Goldie Hawn, Timothy Leary, and Mark Hamill. In this series,
Space Ghost is voiced by George Lowe.

The show reused animation cells from the Hanna-Barbera archives.

Coast to Coast relied heavily on absurd, surreal, or even dadaist
humor. The show ran from 1994 to 2001, moving to the Adult Swim
programming block later that year; the series ended its Adult Swim run
in 2004. The characters of Jan, Jace, and Blip (Space Ghost's old
sidekicks) appeared twice on the show. After approximately eight
seasons, the show went into hiatus, and the writers Dave Willis and Matt
Maiellaro used characters they developed in an unaired episode ("Baffler
Meal") to create another popular "would-be spin-off", Aqua Teen Hunger
Force. After that show proved successful, "Baffler Meal" was animated
and aired in 2003.

New episodes of Space Ghost Coast to Coast appeared on the "Animation"
channel of the GameTap service, beginning on May 30, 2006. Most guests
were either gaming celebrities or musicians. On May 31, 2008, the show
ended when the TV section of GameTap shut down.

Cartoon Planet

Following the popularity of Coast to Coast, the show provided a
spin-off series, Cartoon Planet; the show ran from 1995 to 1998.
Cartoon Planet was an hour-long cartoon block hosted by Space Ghost
with his imprisoned sidekicks Zorak and Brak; the segments in-between
the cartoons usually consisted of skits and original songs.

Due to the popularity of the series' songs, two albums were released:
Space Ghost's Surf & Turf and Space Ghost's Musical Bar-B-Que.
Lowe provided the voice for Space Ghost on both records.


Actors

Three actors played Space Ghost in the three "main" Space Ghost series:

-   Gary Owens (1966–1982, 2011) in Space Ghost, Space Stars, and
    Batman: The Brave and the Bold.
-   George Lowe (1994–present) in Space Ghost Coast to Coast, Cartoon
    Planet, The Brak Show, Squidbillies, Perfect Hair Forever,
    Robot Chicken, Aqua Teen Hunger Force Colon Movie Film For
    Theaters, and Cartoon Network: Punch Time Explosion
-   Andy Merrill (1995–1999) in Space Ghost Coast to Coast as "Live
    Action Space Ghost" and Cartoon Planet as "Dancin' Space Ghost"


Comics

Space Ghost has appeared in the following comic books:

-   Hanna-Barbera Super TV Heroes (Gold Key, 1968)
-   Golden Comics Digest (Gold Key, 1969)
-   TV Stars (, 1978)
-   Space Ghost (Comico, 1987)
-   Cartoon Network Presents (, 1997)
-   Space Ghost (, 2005)
-   Future Quest (, 2016)


Action figures

Space Ghost's Coast to Coast version was released as an action figure
by Toycom, complete with a desk and chair, a series of cue cards and a
mug. Also included were several different sets of hands, allowing the
figure to be used either as the talk show host or the super hero or
both. The shoulders and neck were ball-jointed, with a light plastic
yellow cape. A transparent variant "invisible" figure and a variant with
electric "light up" powerband were also released. A repaint of this
figure was used to create a Space Specter figure.

In 2012 a new Space Ghost figure was released in the Jazwares
Hanna-Barbera series and came with a pack-in of Blip.


Notes

