SPACE RANGER is a science fiction hero who was published by  in
several of their 1950s and 1960s anthology titles. He first appeared in
Showcase #15 (July 1958) and was created by writers Edmond Hamilton
and Gardner Fox and artist Bob Brown. The character has notable
similarities to a preceding character named David "Lucky" Starr, created
by novelist Isaac Asimov in his 1952 novel David Starr, Space Ranger.
After appearing in Showcase #15 and 16, the Space Ranger was given a
cover-starring series in Tales of the Unexpected, starting with issue
#40 and lasting until #82 (1959–64). Afterwards, he moved to Mystery in
Space for issues #92–99, 101, 103 (1964–65).


Publication history

In 1957,  editorial director Irwin Donenfeld held a meeting
with editors Jack Schiff and Julius Schwartz in his office, asking them
each to create a new science fiction hero: one from the present, and one
from the future. Given first choice, Schiff chose to create one from the
future.

After a successful tryout in Showcase #15 and 16, the Space Ranger was
given a slot in Tales of the Unexpected, starting with issue #40
(August 1959).


Fictional character biography

Set in the 22nd century, Space Ranger is really RICK STARR, a seemingly
shiftless executive at his gruff, cigar-chomping father THADDEUS STARR's
Allied Solar Enterprises. He took on the role of the superheroic
interplanetary troubleshooter to battle space pirates, alien invaders,
evil scientists and other futuristic threats both cosmic and criminal,
hiding his true identity beneath a transparent blue helmet and operating
out of a hidden asteroid base via his sleek super-swift scarlet
spaceship the Solar King.

Possessing no powers other than his highly developed brain and brawn,
the crew cut, yellow and red spacesuit-clad "Guardian of the Solar
System" (later "Guardian of the Universe") armed himself with a vast
variety of super-scientific gadgets like the handy all-purpose multi-ray
pistol he wore on his weapon belt.

Space Ranger is assisted by the only two people who knew his secret, his
loyal and highly efficient beautiful blond secretary/girlfriend MYRA
MASON and his plucky and clever cute little pink alien sidekick CRYLL, a
big-eyed, trunk-snouted shapeshifter with the ability to transform into
sundry super-powered extraterrestrial lifeforms who he had found frozen
in suspended animation beyond the orbit of Pluto.

Space Ranger and Cryll have visited the 20th century on occasion,
working with contemporary heroes such as Green Lantern Hal Jordan
and the Justice League of America, and in their own time have had
adventures with a red-headed 22nd century descendant of Adam
Strange.

Starman

Space Ranger makes an appearance in Starman #55 (July 1999), in which
Space Ranger and Ultra the Multi-Alien are riding in Space Cabbie's cab
to find Starman IV's cosmic staff for the Space Museum. Each regales the
other with different interpretations of Jack and Mikaal rescuing
Starfire from a space pirate. Space Ranger also appeared in the
background on Harore Station in Mystery in Space vol. 2 #6 (April
2007).

Trinity

Space Ranger has made regular appearances in Trinity, the weekly
series published by  from 2008–2009. In an alternate reality created
by the absence of Superman, Batman, and Wonder Woman, Space Ranger is a
member of the League, a group of vigilantes hunted by Earth's registered
superhumans. When the League goes public during a crisis, the Space
Ranger reveals himself to be J'Onn J'Onzz, the Martian Manhunter, in
disguise.


Other versions

A version of Space Ranger appeared in the 1990 mini-series Twilight.

In the "Without you I'm nothing" short story written by Evan Dorkin and
drawn by Steven Weissman, Cryll is one of a large number of ex-sidekicks
living on Skid Row and eating in soup kitchens. They include Cryll,
Zook, Bathound, Proty, Doiby Dickles and many others, regardless of
actual location of activity, time-period, or whether they are deceased,
retconned, etc. Cryll organizes them as a superhero team (Sidekickers
?), but they tackle Evil Star and his Starlings on their first mission,
and are roundly defeated. Cryll loses an ear and nobody appears to have
used their powers.

They then reorganize as an AA-type organization to help ex-sidekicks.
During a meeting of such, Space Ranger enters and appeals to Cryll to
rejoin him. Cryll, however, feels he was abandoned and chases Space
Ranger out. Space Ranger leaves in tears. During the night, Cryll has
second thoughts about what he had done, and leaves before dawn to rejoin
Space Ranger, to the consternation of the others. The oddities in this
and several other offbeat stories is "explained" by crediting them to
the pen of Bizarro.


In other media

Television

-   Space Ranger appears in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold episode
    "The Siege of Starro" Pt. 1. He is seen helping the Green Lantern
    Corps fight the Starro-controlled superheroes and ends up falling
    under Starro's control.
-   In Legends of Tomorrow , Martin Stein reminisces on reading "Rick
    Star, Space Ranger".

