SPARX, is a fictional superheroine published by . She first
appeared in Adventures of Superman Annual #5, (1993), and was created
by Karl Kesel, Tom Grummett and Ed Hannigan.


Fictional character biography

Donna Carol Force, or D.C. for short, is part of the meta-human
superhero team of Canada, known as the FORCE FAMILY. D.C.'s fondest wish
has always been to become a meta-human as the rest of her family. In an
attempt to trigger her meta-human genes, D.C. went to Metropolis with
her uncle Harry hoping to find the alien parasites, that were rampaging
the city at the time. It was her belief that the aliens could trigger
her meta-genes. The aliens had been doing so, but only as an unintended
consequence among the many people they have actually murdered.

D.C. and Harry find the parasite known as Gemir but D.C. changes her
mind. This does not help, as she is attacked and bitten, her spinal
fluid drained. Fortunately she turns out to be one of the rare survivors
and blasts off in a surge of electrical energy as two paramedics
administer first aid.

She assists the hero known as Superboy in a battle in one of the
parasite's many hideouts. The two are able to drive the aliens away.
D.C. leaves Superboy with a kiss and with the new codename of "Sparx."
She encounters her uncle again and tells him she wishes to stay to help
destroy the threat of the parasites.

Due to the influence of her bite, Sparx is drawn to the final battle
site against the aliens, deep in an American swamp. She finds several
other parasite-heroes, 'New Bloods', who had been drawn here too. They
join forces with veteran superheroes and destroy all the aliens.

Blood Pack

Some time later Sparx auditions for the Blood Pack, a team of New Bloods
that would star in the "Blood Pack" television show, and made the cut.
The other cast members include New Bloods known as Loria, Ballistic,
Mongrel, Geist, Nightblade, and Razorsharp. They are led and trained by
the heroine Jade, the daughter of Alan Scott, the Golden Age Green
Lantern. The Bloods find out that the producers of the show are actually
members of a secret criminal organisation with a hidden agenda to take
over world. The Blood Pack successfully defeat this plan. Despite Jade's
continuing efforts, the team drifts apart.

Superboy and the Ravers

Sparx then makes her way to the "Event Horizon", an out-of-the-way realm
sometimes referred to as a 'rave', a constant, continuing party. Sparx
introduces her old ally Superboy to the situation; this leads to the
comic book series Superboy and the Ravers.

As part of the group, Sparx deals with, among other things, alien
kidnappers, the behind-the-scenes influences of the Event Horizon
management and a villain-filled road trip across the United States. The
Rave clique also helps out against the cosmic threats detailed in the
Genesis four-part limited series. They are seen fighting the forces of
Apokolips.

It is soon noted that Sparx seems more comfortable in her Sparx persona
than as D.C. Force. She develops romantic feelings for Superboy, then
later, the hero known as Hero. She is rocked when she finds Hero is gay.

In an effort against Kindred Grim, Sparx is granted the additional
powers of the "Qwa-Angel", a power once belonging to the evil energy
powered angels who once lived on Qward. The intent to destroy the
Predators, a race of emotion-influencing beings. She is successful, but
as a result has lost all of her powers. She never got over the concept
of Hero's homosexuality, and she is not in the best of moods since she
once again is the only non-powered member of the Force family in Canada.

Assisting others

Despite the loss of power, she appears in Metropolis in
Superman/Batman # 32 (2007), powered up, under the mental control of
an alien armada being influenced by Despero. Many other
alien-influenced, currently brainwashed heroes are seen with her,
including several New Bloods, such as Loose Cannon. The gathered heroes
try to kill Superman and Batman. Fortunately, Despero is soon defeated
and the aliens are convinced to forgo their mental influence.

Sparx is one of the dozens of heroes to help in a Titans-led assist to
the bombed city of Bludhaven. This is part of an "Infinite Crisis"
tie-in.

Donna later appears in Final Crisis along with the twins called Mas Y
Menos and Empress in a failed attempt to launch The League of Titans.
They are defeated by Mirror Master and the evil Doctor Light. Mas Y
Menos are impaled with shards of glass but survive their injuries.

Sparx is listed among the potential candidates for Titans membership in
Teen Titans #66, indicating she survived the events of Final Crisis.

