MIA DEARDEN is a  superheroine, the second character to take
the mantle of Green Arrow's sidekick SPEEDY. Created by writer Kevin
Smith and artist Phil Hester, she first appeared in Green Arrow (vol.
3) #2 (May 2001). She is notable as one of the few HIV-positive
characters in comic books. In The New 52, a mysterious man is
currently searching for Mia.


Fictional character biography

Mia Dearden is a teenage runaway who was abused by her father. Unable to
survive on her own, she fell in love with a man who offered her shelter
and food in exchange for exploiting her in a child prostitution ring.
Mia was rescued from one of her clients, a depraved local politician, by
the costumed hero Green Arrow, who had just returned from the dead and
to Star City. Sent by the Green Arrow to see Oliver Queen (his real
identity) for help, Mia saw through Queen's disguise and became his new
ward. Mia continued to work with Oliver, who was busy trying to
reconstruct his own life, and after coming upon her crossbow, Ollie
began to train her as an archer. In addition, she trains with Oliver's
son Connor Hawke in martial arts and forges a close friendship with him.
Mia continually petitioned Green Arrow to allow her to serve as his
sidekick, but Oliver demurred, not wanting to put another teenager at
risk.

Mia appeared in Green Arrow as a supporting character until 2004, when
writer Judd Winick revealed that she was HIV-positive, a legacy of her
exploitation. With this knowledge, Mia redoubled her efforts to convince
Green Arrow to let her become the new Speedy, and the Green Arrow
finally relented. Mia takes up the mantle of Speedy, and
subsequently Oliver decided that she would do well to join the Teen
Titans. In order to earn her spot on the team, Cyborg had the new Speedy
face off against Robin. While Robin beat Speedy, Mia proved herself to
be a very skilled fighter and worthy Titan. Shortly after her first
official mission with the Titans, she revealed to the team that she was
HIV-positive. They accepted her without question or fear.

The first Speedy, Arsenal (Roy Harper), gave Mia a set of his old
arrows, including a mysterious blue arrow labeled: "Only use in an
emergency". Not even Roy knew its power. Mia was tempted to use the
arrow in her first mission against Dr. Light; against a possessed
Superboy, Indigo, Lex Luthor, and Brainiac; and again when they faced
off against the demon servants of Brother Blood. When she finally used
the arrow, it turned out to be a Phantom Zone arrow, stolen from
Superman's Fortress of Solitude by Roy when he was Speedy. Mia used the
arrow to attempt to trap Superboy-Prime; however, he was able to escape
almost immediately, apparently through his super strength.

After the events of Infinite Crisis, Mia recuperated from injuries on
an island with Green Arrow and Connor, returning approximately a year
later. In her time on the island, Mia trained in new styles of
fighting and healing, and on working as a team with Green Arrow.

Jason Todd, the former partner of Batman, kidnaps Dearden. Jason
believed he and Speedy shared similarities, though he kidnapped her to
retaliate against Batman's interference in his gun smuggling operation.
By involving Green Arrow, he was trying to show Batman the price of
enlisting others into their conflict. Jason took Speedy to Smith O'Neil
High School, where the former Robin untied her so that they could fight.
Jason commented on how alike they were, living on the streets and having
to do bad things in order to survive. He was also aware of her past and
situations; with her family, as a prostitute, and her HIV status. Jason
defeated Speedy but allowed her to escape, after telling her that
neither Batman nor the Green Arrow would ever understand him, but that
she would. Afterward, he blew up the school and left. Despite her
vehement denial, Jason's words have apparently affected Mia on some
level.

In the months since this event, things for Mia and the rest of her
family have been in a constant state of upheaval. It all began when
Green Arrow proposed to the Black Canary. After a ceremony in Happy
Harbor that was then attacked by super-villains, it was revealed the
Green Arrow never actually managed to marry Dinah. Instead, he was
kidnapped and replaced with Everyman, who attempted to kill Dinah on her
wedding night. Mia, Connor and Dinah manage to save Ollie who was
kidnapped by Granny Goodness and the Amazons, but immediately after
Connor is nearly killed by a gunshot meant for Ollie. The attack leaves
Connor in a vegetative state, after which he is kidnapped by the
supposed League of Assassins. Mia, Dinah and Ollie scour the world with
Batman and Plastic Man in search of their missing family member. During
this time, the group meet and work with a young British vigilante
nicknamed Dodger, to whom Mia becomes attracted. Throughout the mission,
Mia and Dodger work together, this partnership culminating in Dodger
asking Mia out on a date.

After Connor's rescue, Mia moves to London to pursue a romance with
Dodger, although she eventually returns from London, having broken up
with Dodger since she found him 'snogging' the actress Emma Watson. She
returns just in time to save Black Canary during a battle, and to
witness Ollie leaving. She returns in a costume of black with black
arrows, differentiating her from the green costume that Ollie wears and
the red that Roy sports as RED ARROW.

During the Blackest Night storyline, Mia briefly travels to Coast City
with Connor in order to fight off the Black Lantern invasion. She and
Connor rescue Dinah from Ollie, who had been transformed into a Black
Lantern by Nekron. They return to Star City following the end of
Blackest Night.

During the events of Justice League: Cry for Justice, Mia is
babysitting Roy Harper's daughter Lian, but is called away when the
Electrocutioner is sighted planting bombs created by Prometheus in Star
City, which are intended to move Star City to an alternate universe. The
bombs, however, do not teleport the city but instead begin destroying
it. To Mia's horror, the bombs destroy their home and kill Lian. This
leads directly to the storyline of Rise and Fall.

In said Rise and Fall storyline, Mia helps out Green Arrow after the
Justice League attempts to capture him for killing Prometheus. While
Green Arrow distracts the League, Mia kidnaps the Electrocutioner and
brings him to their hideout beneath Star City. Though Mia begs Green
Arrow for the chance to kill Electrocutioner, he convinces her that
killing is not the answer, and takes Electrocutioner into custody.
Following Electrocutioner's arrest, Mia attends Lian's funeral alongside
a number of prominent heroes, including her former teammates from the
Teen Titans. During the service, Mia is attacked by Roy, who angrily
blames her for getting Lian killed. Though Ravager intervenes and
eventually causes Roy to leave, Mia is left visibly shaken by his
accusations.

Alongside Damian Wayne and a group of other ex-Titans, Mia aids the
then-current team of Teen Titans during their battle against
Superboy-Prime and the Legion of Doom. During the battle, she and
Ravager work together to successfully take down Persuader.

The New 52

In the first part of the Green Arrow storyline, titled _"Kingdom,"_ a
mysterious individual tortures a man for information on the whereabouts
of Mia Dearden, whom he somehow considers to be more of a threat to him
than the Green Arrow. She is only shown in a picture. She says that
her father, John King, is after her.


Powers and abilities

Mia possesses no superhuman powers and abilities, but is an accomplished
archer. Unlike Connor Hawke, who relies on simple wooden shafts, Mia,
like Oliver, employs trick arrows. In addition to a bow, Mia is also
proficient in the use of a crossbow, much to Oliver's dismay. Connor
Hawke and Black Canary taught her many forms of martial arts and
self-defense prior to taking up the mantle of Speedy. One year after
Infinite Crisis,_ she expanded her training on an island with Connor
and, like her mentor, is now an expert sword fighter.

Mia is HIV positive, and as such she is forced to take antiretroviral
drugs with all the attendant side effects. Due to her condition, she
also has to be very careful when injured in combat.


In other media

Television

Smallville

[Elise Gatien as Mia Dearden on Smallville, in the episode
"Crossfire".]

-   Mia Dearden appears in the 9th Season of Smallville and is played
    by actress Elise Gatien. The character appeared in two episodes;
    episode 6 "Crossfire" and episode 10 "Disciple". She first appears
    in the episode "Crossfire" as a member of an underground
    boxing ring. Faithful to the comic books, she is portrayed as a
    runaway who has turned to prostitution to survive. Oliver Queen
    spots her at the ring and impressed by her fighting abilities and
    realizing her current troubled situations, decides to take her under
    his wing. She briefly betrays Queen for a man named Ricky (Michael
    Adamthwaite), to whom she owes money. Oliver, with help from Lois
    Lane and Mia, fights off Ricky's men, and they are rescued by Clark
    Kent's alter-ego, The Blur. Despite the betrayal, Oliver still wants
    to help Mia. She learns Queen's secret identity as Green Arrow, but
    does not become his sidekick in the course of the series. Mia wears
    red and yellow clothing, which represents the colors of Speedy's
    costume in the comics. Unlike the comics, Mia is a brunette and is
    only seen with blonde hair when wearing a wig as a prostitute. The
    character features prominently in the comic book continuation
    Smallville: Titans.

Arrowverse

[Willa Holland as Thea Dearden Queen on Arrow in her Speedy costume.]

-   The 2012 TV series, Arrow, introduces _' Thea Dearden Queen'
    (Willa Holland) the younger half-sister of Oliver Queen, who
    nicknamed her "Speedy" as a child. In the first season, Oliver
    returns home after a five year absence to begin his career as a
    vigilante, but finds Thea has not coped well in response to her
    father and brother's disappearance, even doing hard drugs such as
    Vertigo. In season one, she meets a street criminal named Roy Harper
    and the two begin a relationship. In season two, Thea has matured
    and is running Oliver's old club, Verdant, which is based above
    Oliver's vigilante headquarters. Roy also starts to assist Oliver in
    his vigilante quest as the Arrow, and Thea becomes increasingly
    concerned that they are both keeping secrets. When Oliver's old
    enemy Deathstroke attacks the city, he murders Thea's mother and she
    attempts to escape the city from his enhanced soldiers. Her life is
    saved by Malcolm Merlyn, a family friend who was responsible for her
    father's death, but whom she later learned was her real
    biological father. In season three, Malcolm trains Thea to become a
    capable fighter and wins over her loyalty as a daughter; she lives
    with him in Corto Maltese under the assumed name MIA until he
    brainwashes her into killing Oliver's old flame Sara Lance as part
    of a convoluted scheme to ensure Oliver's protection from the League
    of Assassins. She is drawn into their battle when League ruler Ra's
    al Ghul kills her and she is resurrected in the Lazarus Pit,
    emerging disoriented and aggressive. In the season finale, Roy
    leaves town and hands over his outfit as Oliver's sidekick to Thea,
    who takes on "SPEEDY" as her codename. In Oliver's absence before
    season four, Thea is one of several heroes protecting Star City, but
    when he returns he notices she is struggling with bloodlust since
    her resurrection. Her father, having taken over the League of
    Assassins, encourages Thea to kill in order to tame her bloodlust,
    but Thea becomes intrigued at the possibility of another cure after
    a confrontation with current villain Damien Darhk sees his ability
    to drain life from his victims instead temporarily suppresses her
    need to kill and causing severe pain to Darhk himself. Thea also
    makes crossover appearances in spin-off show The Flash.


Notes and references

Notes
