STALKER is a fictional antihero and swords and sorcery character
published by . The character debuted in Stalker #1 (June/July
1975), and was created by Paul Levitz and Steve Ditko.


Publication history

The Stalker title lasted four issues, to Dec. 1975/Jan. 1976 before it
was cancelled by .


Fictional character biography

A young warrior seeking immortality and power challenges and defeats the
Demon Lord Dgrth, winning immortality but losing his soul. The young
warrior now known as Stalker the Soulless begins a quest to regain his
lost soul. However, the more he traveled the greater his power grew, and
the more he physically resembled Dgrth. Stalker eventually fights his
way to the demon god in the depths of that dimension's netherworld, and
defeats him, only to discover that the deity has already used up the
energies of the traded soul. The only way to get his soul back would be
to end the existence of that dimension's supreme deity, a solution which
could only occur after the abolishment of all war.

Stalker the Souless later appeared in Swamp Thing Vol. 2 #163,
arriving on Earth alongside Claw the Unconquered, Isis, Arion and
Starfire. This storyline suggested that all  "heroic fantasy" worlds
were creations of Jim Rook (Nightmaster)'s mind, but this has been
contradicted since.

JSA Returns

Stalker appeared in All-Star Comics (vol. 2) #1, and as a recurring
theme in a retroactive story featuring the Justice Society of America at
the end of World War II, the so-called "JSA Returns" event. Here, the
soulless Stalker had evolved into an insane demon/supervillain, looking
a lot like Dgrth, and bent on destroying dimension after dimension in
his quest to end all conflict by ending all life. He was defeated and
seemingly destroyed in a time warp generated by the Hourman android.

Wonder Woman

Stalker reappears in present-day in Wonder Woman vol. 3 #20, again
alive, younger, more human and reminiscent of his original self –
possibly this is the same Stalker, somehow plucked from a point earlier
in his life/personal timeline than the Stalker appearing in the
above-mentioned JSA event. Here, he requests that Wonder Woman kill a
demon from his dimension named D'Grth. To these ends he encourages her
to recruit Beowulf Prince of Geats, and Claw the Unconquered.
During this adventure Wonder Woman gives Stalker the proper name of
ELPIS, which means "hope" in Themyscirian. When D'Grth and Grendal
eventually appear, Stalker reveals that he deceived the trio of warriors
as a means of gaining his soul back at the bidding of D'Grth. He then
throws his sword at Diana but Beowulf jumps in its way at the last
second. Claw sees to Beowulf's wounds while Wonder Woman confronts
Stalker. She tells him that Elpis is a female name. She then manages to
steal the Rock of Destiny from Stalker and uses it to transport herself
and D'Grth to Earth, leaving Stalker in his own world with an aspect of
a soul. It is discovered that the soul Stalker possesses is in truth
Diana's soul, which slowly began leaving her body shortly into hers and
Stalker's first meeting. Stalker, though reluctant, agreed to return
Diana's soul to her and joined in the final destruction of D'Grth. He
then leaves with an oracle as a companion.


Other versions

Reference was made to Stalker in the alternate reality created by
Brother Grimm and Mirror Master where the Speed Force never existed,
Captain Cold telling the Flash that he read a book about this world's
history that explained that the Stalker had killed Mr. Terrific without
Jay Garrick there to help the fight, causing such damage to American
morale that the JSA helped to deploy a bomb that annihilated Germany
before retiring in disgust at themselves.


The New 52

In 's 2011 relaunch of its continuity, The New 52, Stalker (by Marc
Andreyko and Andrei Bressan) is now reintroduced to The New 52 universe
as a back-up feature in Sword of Sorcery.


Collected editions

-   THE STEVE DITKO OMNIBUS Volume 1 includes Stalker #1–4, 480
    pages, September 2011, ISBN 1-4012-3111-X

