STARMAN is a name used by several different  superheroes, most
prominently Ted Knight and his sons David and Jack.

Created by writer Gardner Fox and artist Jack Burnley, the original
Starman, Ted Knight, first appeared in Adventure Comics #61 (April
1941). An astronomer, Knight invented a "gravity rod", later reinvented
as a "cosmic rod", allowing him to fly and manipulate energy, and donned
a red and green costume with a distinctive finned helmet.

Like most Golden Age heroes, Starman fell into obscurity in the 1950s.
In the ensuing years, several characters, with varying degrees of
relation to the original, briefly took the mantle of Starman.

In Zero Hour: Crisis in Time #1 (September 1994), writer James
Robinson and artist Tony Harris introduced Jack Knight, the son of the
first Starman. A reluctant, non-costumed hero, he inherited his father’s
name and mission and used his technology to create a cosmic staff. He
starred in a critically acclaimed series, written by Robinson, from 1994
until 2001.

The current successor of Starman is Stargirl, formerly the second
Star-Spangled Kid.

Below, in chronological order of activity (not of appearance), are the
characters to have used the name "Starman".


Theodore Knight

THEODORE HENRY KNIGHT is a 1940s  superhero who wore a red
costume with a finned helmet and a green cape, and wielded a "gravity
rod" (later "cosmic rod") which enabled him to fly and fire energy bolts
as a member of the Justice Society of America.


Starman of 1951

The Starman of 1951 is a superhero who operated in the  Universe in
1951. In actuality, he is a retcon who appeared in Starman (vol. 2)
and whose identity was revealed towards the end of that series as being
the original Dr. Mid-Nite, Charles McNider, and later a time-displaced
David Knight, son of the original Starman, Ted Knight, after some
training from McNider. This proved to be only a temporary reprieve for
the deceased hero however.

In pre-Crisis continuity, the only Starman of the 1950s was actually
Batman who briefly took up that mantle in Detective Comics #247
(September 1957), using variants of his usual equipment, but with a star
motif instead of a bat, due to him having been hypnotized to be given a
fear of bats in the belief that this would render him incapable of being
a hero.


Star-Man

In Detective Comics #286 a villainous Star-Man appeared to menace
Batman and Robin whose super-strength waned in the presence of a Tibetan
belt worn by Batwoman.


Mikaal Tomas

[Mikaal Tomas as Starman. Art by Cully Hamner.] MIKAAL TOMAS (also known
as Michael Thomas) is a  superhero, introduced in the 1970s.
Tomas is an alien who traveled to Earth to help conquer it, but instead
turned against his war-like people in defense of the human race. He has
blue skin and originally wore Mister Miracle-style flight-discs on his
feet that allowed him to fly, and a medallion containing a sonic crystal
around his neck. The gem eventually became embedded in his chest and
allows him to fire bolts of energy. He first appeared in 1st Issue
Special #12 (March 1976). Within the story, Mikaal was given the name
Starman not as a means of carrying on Ted Knight's legacy, but rather in
reference to the song "Starman" by David Bowie. The song tells of a
benevolent alien who arrives on Earth in order to save the planet from
destruction, a situation which greatly parallels Mikaal's backstory. The
character later suffered amnesia until he turned up in the 1990s
Starman series. The 1990s series revealed that Mikaal's homeworld was
Talok III, sister planet to Talok VIII, the home of Shadow Lass. The
inhabitants of the eighth planet have darker blue skin, but they are the
same species. Tomas' origins have been noted to bear certain
similarities to that of Captain Mar-Vell of .

In James Robinson's 1990s series, Starman became notable for being
portrayed in a gay relationship; Mikaal's partner Tony was introduced in
a 1998 issue of Starman. Starman's specific sexual identity was not
addressed in print. His long-term relationship with Tony lasted, in 
continuity, twelve years, interrupted by Tony's death. A 2010 Robinson
story subsequently clarified that Mikaal identifies himself as gay.

In 2009, writer James Robinson returned to the character, reintroducing
him as a main character in Justice League: Cry for Justice. In the
first issue, Tony, his lover from the Starman series, is killed while
visiting his parents in New York by unnamed supervillains, prompting
Mikaal to seek justice. He meets and befriends Congorilla, a fellow hero
who is also mourning the loss of someone close to him, in this case his
partner and close friend, Freedom Beast. The two heroes travel to Paris,
where they find the two assassins who murdered their loved ones, and in
the ensuing fight both villains are killed before they can reveal who
hired them. After asking Animal Man for help, the heroes travel to the
Justice League Watchtower, only to soon find themselves in the midst of
a battle with Prometheus, the villain that hired the assassins to kill
Tony and Freedom Beast. Mikaal and his companions are easily defeated,
and Prometheus escapes after destroying Star City. Mikaal is later shown
helping Congorilla and the members of the Justice League search for
survivors in the ruins of the city.

After this, Mikaal appears in the main Justice League of America
series, where he tries to help Congorilla after he is attacked by a
group of villains working for Doctor Impossible. Robinson officially
added Mikaal to the Justice League. In his first mission with the team,
he helped capture Plastique and her companions after they tried to flee
the country. During Brightest Day, Mikaal is sent into space by
Batman (Dick Grayson) in order to find Alan Scott after he goes insane
and vows to destroy the world. Mikaal tracks Alan to the moon, where he
has constructed a massive fortress composed of green energy. Before
Mikaal can relay this information to his teammates, Scott attacks him
and violently tears the gem from his chest. Miss Martian is able to
mentally contact Mikaal, who claims that he has been imprisoned in
Alan's fortress and fears that he may be dying. He is ultimately
rescued by Doctor Mid-Nite and joins his teammates in defeating Alan.

Mikaal soon spirals into a delayed depression over Tony's death. He is
confronted by Congorilla, who wishes him to help find Malavar, a Gorilla
scientist specialising in transdimension research, in order to help
heroes break into the energy dome that has been erected around
Washington, D.C. during the Omega storyline. After some
heart-to-heart about Mikaal moving on, they discover Malavar was seeking
the Fountain of Youth, and so gain the aid of Rex the Wonder Dog, a
sapient dog who is aware of the Fountain's location, and Animal Man, who
translates what Rex says. The group head off to its location in the
Florida Everglades, and save Malavar who reveals he's there attempting
to resurrect the 'one who kept him sane' during his captivity by
Prometheus. They fight off Gorilla City terrorists keen to kill the
renown ape, during which Malavar's saviour, Tasmanian Devil, revives and
joins the fight, helping the group win. After the battle is done, the
weary Tasmanian Devil is sent home to rest, and the remaining group
begin to head off to assist efforts in Washington, D.C.. Congorilla
notes to Mikaal that Tasmanian Devil is also gay, and would make a
suitable partner - Mikaal expresses belief that perhaps it is best to
move on (but not forget his time with Tony), and expresses interest in
Congorilla's suggestion; the two heroes are dating.

Later, during a battle between the Justice League and Doomsday, it was
discovered that Mikaal's gem somehow affected Saint Walker's blue power
ring. Starman played a pivotal role in the League's final adventure,
where he and the Atom were shrunken down and sent inside the Shade's
brain. The two heroes freed Shade from Eclipso's control, allowing the
JLA to defeat Eclipso once and for all. Following an injury
sustained during a battle on Gemworld, Starman resigned from the League.
The team officially disbanded shortly after this. Following the
events of Flashpoint, Mikaal is indeed shown back in Opal City, now
operating as a solo hero once again. Despite having left the League, a
conversation with the Shade implies that Mikaal is indeed still friends
with Congorilla.


Prince Gavyn

PRINCE GAVYN, a 1980s  superhero created by Paul Levitz and
Steve Ditko, was the spoiled blond playboy prince of an alien
empire. He discovered he was a mutant who could survive unaided in space
when, by ancient royal custom, he was thrown out of a spaceship airlock
to prevent him from challenging his more mature sister's claim to the
leadership of the imperial planet Throneworld. Gavyn was given jeweled
wristbands and a staff by the mysterious mystic M'ntorr, which allowed
him to channel his cosmic powers into the ability to fly interstellar
distances and shoot bolts of energy. For a time keeping his true
identity a secret as a masked protector of the realm, after the
assassination of his sister only one year into her reign, he became
ruler of their people. He first appeared in Adventure Comics #467
(January 1980) and was believed to have died in the Crisis on Infinite
Earths. His story was elaborated upon in Starman Annual #1, the
tie-in to the comics event Legends of the Dead Earth.

The 1990s Starman series revealed that his fate was different from
previously believed. It was revealed that Gavyn was converted into pure
energy, which became the source of the beam of light that struck Will
Payton, a later Starman, granting him his powers. It is then revealed by
Gavyn's tutor that Will Payton died when struck by the energy and his
essence was infused in Will Payton's body.

Gavyn reappeared during the Rann-Thanagar War, defending Throneworld
from Thanagarians alongside the Omega Men, and later its sequel
Rann-Thanagar Holy War.

During the events of the Strange Adventures mini-series that followed
Rann-Thanagar Holy War, Gavyn was transformed by Synnar the Demiurge
into a flame-haired being called Fusion.


Will Payton

WILL PAYTON, a 1980s  superhero, was created by Roger Stern and
Tom Lyle. Payton gained his powers of flight, super strength, a mild
amount of shapeshifting, and the ability to alter his appearance and
fire bolts of energy from his hands after being struck by a bolt of
energy from a satellite in space. He was in his early twenties and
worked as a magazine copy editor. The satellite had been launched by the
Hutchison Institute, and the powers had been intended for their team of
super-agents the Power Elite. Despite his short career, he gained a good
reputation among other heroes, even assisting Superman on some
occasions, such as helping him recharge after an encounter with Parasite
drained most of his solar energy, and posing as Superman when he was
briefly depowered by Lex Luthor's use of Mister Mxyzptlk's Red
Kryptonite (although he was forced to leave to recover after he was
injured in a confrontation with evil genius Thaddeus Killgrave). He
first appeared in Starman (vol. 1) #1 (October 1988) and seemingly
died fighting the supervillain Eclipso.

The 1990s Starman series revealed that his fate was different from
that previously believed. The mysterious bolt of energy that infused
Payton with his cosmic abilities was revealed to be the essence of the
alien Prince named Gavyn, who also used the name Starman. It is
currently unclear whether the two men, Gavyn and Payton, fused into one
being with shared memories, or if Payton was killed by the bolt that
struck him and was replaced by the essence of Gavyn.


David Knight

DAVID KNIGHT, a 1990s  superhero, was the son of the original
Starman and elder brother of the 1990s Starman, Jack. He first appeared
in Starman (vol. 1) #26 (September 1990), having taken up his father's
mantle, and was killed by an assassin in Starman (vol. 2) #0 (October
1994). He regularly (annually) appeared to Jack after his death,
providing guidance for his brother. Toward the end of the series, his
ultimate fate was revealed to have been different from what was
previously believed (as noted above for the Starman of 1951).

In Starman (vol. 2) #81 (a one-issue revival tying into the Blackest
Night event), David's corpse is reanimated as a member of the Black
Lantern Corps. He unsuccessfully targets Hope and Mason O'Dare, and then
confronts Shade, who pulls him into the Shadowlands, imprisoning him
there. During their confrontation, the Black Lantern mentions his plan
to lure Jack into another "talking with David" scene before killing him,
a reference to David's prior role in the series.


Jack Knight

JACK KNIGHT, a 1990s  superhero, is the son of the original
Starman, Ted Knight. He wields a cosmically-powered staff, but refuses
to wear a costume, instead preferring a T-shirt, leather jacket (with
star emblem on the back), a Cracker Jack prize sheriff's star, and
light-shielding tank goggles. A reluctant hero that took up the mantle
after David died, he is the protagonist of the comic book series written
by James Robinson. Jack briefly joined the JSA, but soon retired at the
end of the Starman series, passing along his cosmic rod to the JSA's
young heroine, Stargirl.


Thom Kallor/Danny Blaine

[Kallor as Starman. Art by Alex Ross.] DANNY BLAINE is a 
superhero of the near future whose identity (but not his full story) is
revealed in the 1990s Starman series. Danny Blaine was eventually
revealed to be Thom Kallor, also known as Star Boy, a 
superhero in the 30th century and a member of the Legion of
Super-Heroes. He originally had powers similar to Superboy, but later
lost them and retained only his innate ability to increase the mass of
nearby objects. Thom takes on the mantle of Starman in the 21st century
with the full knowledge that he will lose his life there. The Danny
Blaine/Thom Kallor version was inspired by the Kingdom Come depiction
of the character, designed by Alex Ross.

One Year Later

The One Year Later line-up of the Justice Society had a new,
schizophrenic Starman. Fully aware of his condition and plagued by
voices and shattered impressions of his adventures through time and
space, he voluntarily went to reside at the Sunshine Sanitarium in Opal
City when not performing his super-heroic feats, seeking a cure and
protection until the JSA sent Doctor Mid-Nite and Stargirl to recruit
him. He accepted, asking only a cure for his addled mind in exchange.

Hailing from the original Legion of Super-Heroes universe, where he was
known as Star Boy, he received from Brainiac 5 of the Three Worlds a
complete map of the Multiverse, printed on his star-clad suit, to use in
a mission meant to save the entire space-time continuum. It was implied
that his addled status was actually a deciding factor in his choice,
since his borderline insanity was meant to prevent telepaths or skilled
interrogators from gaining any information from him. However, he got
stranded on Earth-22, the Kingdom Come universe, thus witnessing the
dramatic events on that Earth and receiving added damage to his frail
mind, worsened by the lack of the advanced medication to which he had
had access in his own time.

He later decided to take the name of Danny Blaine, after his favorite
pulp adventurer from Xanthu, a situation that paid off when his
mental sanity was restored to him by the literal-minded Old God Gog.
Unable to ensure the absolute secrecy of his mission while being Starman
all the time, he accepted a job as a gravedigger in Metropolis. With
Gog's defeat, Starman was returned to his disturbed state, steadily
worsening due to his lack of proper medication; however, in his work
as a gravedigger, he was able to locate Superboy/ Kon-El's corpse and
transport it to the Fortress of Solitude; where it lay under special
Kryptonian crystals in a regeneration chamber for 1000 years. The
crystals recharged Conner's (Superboy) life force; thus bringing on his
resurrection 1000 years in the future as seen in "Final Crisis: The
Legion of 3 Worlds" – The penultimate chapter of "The Lightning
Saga".


Farris Knight

The Starman of the 853rd century is FARRIS KNIGHT, who is also a member
of Justice Legion Alpha and was a major character in the series  One
Million. He is a distant descendant of Jack Knight's and the Mist's
son. Farris commands an alien artifact called a "quarvat", similar in
function to the "cosmic rod". He lives on a space station (in the orbit
of Uranus) from which he monitors the artificial sun Solaris. He asserts
that being the descendant of the Mist as much as the Knights, he was
predisposed to villainy, and Solaris eventually corrupts Farris. The man
arranges for the defeat of the two JLAs and travels back in time to kill
the originator of his hated responsibility, Ted Knight. Meeting Ted,
however, changes his mind and Farris ultimately sacrifices himself to
save the modern day Earth from Solaris' machinations, his lost quarvat
apparently going on to be found by his own great-grandfather (resulting
in its existence being a temporal paradox).


Victor Sono

Introduced in Jonah Hex (vol. 2) #27 (March 2008), the "Star Man" of
the Old West originally came to New York with his father from Italy just
after the Civil War ended. His name was VICTOR SONO. His father tried to
get work as a sheriff, but the group of lawmen with whom he interviewed
mocked and killed him for being crippled. Young Victor later found his
body hanging outside the building and decided to avenge his death. He
pickpocketed a pistol and fired on the group. Before he could do much
damage, however, the owner of the pistol, Jonah Hex, who was in town
collecting a bounty, knocked him out and took his gun back. He nearly
left the boy to the "lawmen", but after recalling his own terrible
childhood, came back and rescued Victor, whom he left at an orphanage.
Years later, Hex and Victor would cross paths again, Victor now calling
himself the Star Man. He had dedicated his life to killing unjust lawmen
and adding their sheriff's stars to his coat. The Star Man has a
habit of manipulating Hex for his own ends, although he does know that
he owes Hex his life.


Other versions

-   Stargirl (Courtney Whitmore), formerly the second Star-Spangled Kid,
    is a superheroine who inherited Jack Knight's cosmic staff after he
    retired from being Starman. She is a member of the Justice Society
    of America.
-   In JSA #72, a female calling herself "Starwoman" is revealed to be
    Patricia Lynn Dugan (the half-sister of Courtney Whitmore), one of
    the individuals Thom Kallor mentioned as continuing the Starman
    legacy.
-   In JLA: Age of Wonder, Starman is portrayed as a fellow inventor
    alongside Superman, Thomas Edison, and Nikola Tesla. He invents his
    cosmic rod with technology gleaned from the rocket ship which
    brought Superman to Earth.
-   In JSA: The Unholy Three, Starman is an intelligence agent working
    at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and is code-named "Star".
-   Dr. Stellar of Big Bang Comics has some elements of Starman.
-   In JLA: Earth 2, in the Crime Syndicate's space headquarters, they
    have a costume belonging to a former teammate bearing the
    name "Spaceman". He is the Antimatter universe counterpart of
    Starman, although he does not make an appearance.
-   Countdown: Arena introduces several alternate Starmen: an adult
    Courtney Whitmore from Earth-7, an intelligent gorilla from
    Earth-17, and a feral Mikaal Tomas from Earth-48.
-   It was revealed by Ted Knight in Starman (vol. 2) #17 that
    Sylvester Pemberton considered calling himself Starman before he
    decided on Skyman.


Titles

Starman (vol. 1)

Starman (vol. 1) was a  ongoing series starring Starman (Will
Payton). The series was published from October 1988 to April 1992. This
Starman also appeared in a short story in Action Comics Weekly #622
released October 18, 1988.

Starman (vol. 2)

Starman (vol. 2) was an ongoing series published by  from
October 1994 to August 2001, starring the superhero Starman (Jack
Knight). The series was written by James Robinson with art primarily by
Tony Harris from issues #0–45 and Peter Snejbjerg from issues
#50–80.

Style

Starman included a number of signature thematic and stylistic
elements, which helped make it distinctive. One was the importance of
collectibles and collecting. James Robinson was an avid collector of a
number of different things and transferred this interest to the hero,
Jack Knight, who ran a collectibles shop. Many of the guest characters
would also discuss their collecting interests. The book also dealt with
the past and nostalgia quite frequently. One manner was through the
irregular appearance of "Times Past" issues set in a different time
period. These usually, but not always, focused on one of the other
Starmen or the Shade. Text pieces, dubbed "The Shade's Journal" and
dealing with that character's adventures over his long life, also
appeared irregularly instead of a letter column. In addition, most of
the characters who appeared in the book had some connection to a legacy
from the past. They were either immortal, had inherited a role from a
family member, or were the reincarnation of a previous hero. The book
also featured a number of discussions and meditations on age. Another
stylistic theme in the book was the often impressionistic approach to
violence and conflict. The lead up to and aftereffects of violence were
generally much more important in the Starman book than the violence
itself. A number of confrontations that Jack Knight had with "villains"
ended peacefully, such as an early encounter with a bounty hunter who
broke into Jack's shop looking for an enchanted shirt. After a short
scuffle, Jack, seeing no reason not to, agrees to sell the man the
shirt. When violence was depicted, it was often much more
impressionistic, instead of the highly choreographed and detailed
violence seen in many superhero comics. Finally, a sense of place
informed many Starman stories. James Robinson has stated his
appreciation for the fictional cities of the  Universe. With Starman,
he attempted to develop the setting of Opal City as a real place with a
distinct character. Robinson and artist Tony Harris developed maps of
Opal City and came up with a fictional history of it. Characters would
often make mention of specific locations in the city and small bits of
its history.

Story arcs

Reception

Commenting on the character and series, comic writer Geoff Johns wrote:

Awards and nominations

Starman was nominated in the 1995 Eisner Awards for "Best Continuing
Series" and "Best Serialized Story" for the story arc "Sins of the
Father" (issues #0–3) and won the Eisner Award for "Best Serialized
Story" for the story arc "Sand and Stars" (issues #20–23). It was
also nominated for "Best Continuing Series" in 1997.

Collected editions

Most of the Starman (vol. 2) series has been collected in several
trade paperbacks. Uncollected issues from this series are #36, 42, 44,
46, 54, 74, and the 80-Page Giant.

  Title                  Material collected                                                                   Publication date   ISBN
  ---------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------ ------
  SINS OF THE FATHER     Starman (vol. 2) #0–5                                                              January 1996       
  NIGHT AND DAY          Starman (vol. 2) #7–10, #12–16                                                     March 1997         
  A WICKED INCLINATION   Starman (vol. 2) #17, #19–27)                                                      March 1998         
  TIMES PAST             Starman (vol. 2) #6, #11, #18, #28, Annual #1; Starman Secret Files (one-shot)   February 1999      
  INFERNAL DEVICES       Starman (vol. 2) #29–35, #37–38                                                    October 2000       
  TO REACH THE STARS     Starman (vol. 2) #39–41, #43, #45, Annual #2; The Power of Shazam!_ #35–36        May 2001           
  A STARRY KNIGHT        Starman (vol. 2) #47–53                                                            March 2002         
  STARS MY DESTINATION   Starman (vol. 2) #55–60                                                            January 2004       
  GRAND GUIGNOL          Starman (vol. 2) #61–73                                                            October 2004       
  SONS OF THE FATHER     Starman (vol. 2) #75–80                                                            April 2005         

The entire Starman (vol. 2) series is collected in six omnibus
harovers.

  Title                       Material collected                                                                                                                            Publication date   ISBN
  --------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------
  STARMAN OMNIBUS, VOLUME 1   Starman (vol. 2) #0–16                                                                                                                      June 2008          
  STARMAN OMNIBUS, VOLUME 2   Starman (vol. 2) #17–29, Annual #1; relevant stories from Showcase '95 #12, Showcase '96 #4–5                                           March 2009         
  STARMAN OMNIBUS, VOLUME 3   Starman (vol. 2) #30–38, Annual #2; Starman Secret Files (one-shot); The Shade #1–4                                                     June 2009          
  STARMAN OMNIBUS, VOLUME 4   Starman (vol. 2) #39–46; Starman 80-Page Giant #1; Starman: The Mist #1; The Power of Shazam!_ #35–36; Batman/Hellboy/Starman #1–2   February 2010      
  STARMAN OMNIBUS, VOLUME 5   Starman (vol. 2) #47–60, #1000000; Stars and S.T.R.I.P.E._ #0; All Star Comics 80-Page Giant #1; JSA: All Stars #4                     October 2010       
  STARMAN OMNIBUS, VOLUME 6   Starman (vol. 2) #61–81                                                                                                                     January 2011       


In other media

-   The Prince Gavyn version of Starman made several background
    appearances in Justice League Unlimited. Stargirl also appeared,
    utilizing the staff that she inherited from Jack in the comics.
-   There was a television series planned based on Jack Knight's
    adventures, but was last referred to in 2003 as being "indefinitely
    on hold."
-   The original Starman appears among the Justice Society in the
    Batman: The Brave and the Bold episode "Crisis: 22,300 Miles
    Above Earth!". He is voiced by Jeff Bennett.
-   Machinima Inc. and  Entertainment are producing a live-action web
    series based on an updated version of the original concept. Titled
    's Hero Project.

