STAR-SPANGLED KID is the name of several fictional superheroes in the 
Comics' main shared universe.


Fictional character history

Sylvester Pemberton

The original Star-Spangled Kid was SYLVESTER PEMBERTON, a Golden Age
character, created by Jerry Siegel, the co-creator of Superman. He
became the Star-Spangled Kid in order to battle Nazism during World War
II. He was unique in that he was a kid superhero who had an adult
sidekick, Stripesy a.k.a. Pat Dugan. Both he and Dugan were superb
acrobats along with having sufficient training in hand-to-hand combat,
but the pair regularly bickered about which of them should get top
billing.

Decades later, he changed his name to SKYMAN and led Infinity Inc.. He
was killed when Harlequin III made Solomon Grundy touch Pemberton with
Mister Bones's hand. Bones' cyanide touch killed him instantly.

Courtney Whitmore

Courtney is the stepdaughter of Pat Dugan. She finds Pemberton's gear in
her stepfather's belongings and dons the Cosmic Converter Belt, with a
costume of her own design. She begins her career as the second
Star-Spangled Kid in order to annoy Dugan as partial revenge for him
marrying her mother and supposedly forcing the family to move from Los
Angeles to Blue Valley, Nebraska. Dugan, a skilled mechanic, designs and
builds S.T.R.I.P.E., an armored robot which he rides in to accompany and
protect her. Eventually, she joins the JSA and, after being given Jack
Knight's cosmic rod, changes her identity to STARGIRL.

Miss Martian

A third Star-Spangled Kid appears in Terror Titans #1 and is
subsequently captured by the Terror Titans team for the Dark Side Club.
The Star-Spangled Kid is forced to fight in a tournament against other
meta-humans, going on to win the tournament. During the course of the
storyline he appears to have a much stronger resistance to brainwashing
than the other fighters, although he does eventually succumb. Later, it
is revealed that he is the shape-shifting Miss Martian. She uses her
immunity to the brainwashing to slowly free the other combatants.


Other versions

In Kingdom Come, Alex Ross portrays a later Star-Spangled Kid (simply
called STARS) as an African-American street kid wearing a leather jacket
with an American flag bandana,and a T-shirt with an inverted American
flag, using the cosmic rod in conjunction with the cosmic converter
belt. He, too, is accompanied by a muscular older man in a striped
shirt, this one called STRIPES.


In other media

In Smallville, Star-Spangled Kid (Sylvester Pemberton) appeared in the
season 9 episode Absolute Justice, where he contacts Chloe Sullivan
and is later killed by Icicle's son after a brief fight. In the same
episode, when Icicle (Cameron Mahkent) is fighting Stargirl, he asks her
"Are you the new Star-Spangled Kid?" and she replies "It's Stargirl."

