STAR HAWKINS is a science fiction detective character published by 
Comics) in their flagship science-fiction anthology title Strange
Adventures. He and his ever-present robot assistant ILDA first appeared
in Strange Adventures #114 (March 1960) and featured in 21 issues of
the title, but after that only made four other appearances in other 
Comics before he was killed off in Mystery In Space vol 2 #2 (December
2006). The characters were created by John Broome and Mike Sekowsky.


Publication history

Star Hawkins appeared in 21 issues of Strange Adventures, first in the
story "The Case of the Martian Witness" in Strange Adventures #114
(March 1960), written by creator John Broome and drawn by co-creator
Mike Sekowsky and Bernard Sachs under the editorship of Julius Schwartz.
A series of 8/9-page stories was then published in rotation with two
other series, The Atomic Knights and Space Museum, and appeared in every
third issue of Strange Adventures from #119 - 158 (August 1960 -
November 1963), all by the Broome-Sekowsky-Sachs team, and #162 (March
1964), written by France Herron. After Jack Schiff took up the editorial
reins on Strange Adventures he brought Star Hawkins back in issue #173
(February 1965), featuring him again in every third issue until #185
(February 1966), this time all written by Dave Wood and drawn by Gil
Kane. Star Hawkins never featured on the cover of Strange Adventures.

He later appeared in "Whatever will Happen to Star Hawkins" in 
Comics Presents #33 (May 1981), an 8-page tale by Mike Tiefenbacher (a
freelance writer who was then editor of comics magazine The Comic
Reader (TCR)), with artists Alex Saviuk and Vince Colletta. Star
Hawkins' only other appearances were in the non-canonical mini-series
Twilight (1990) by Howard Chaykin and his death in the mini-series
Mystery in Space vol 2 #2 (December 2006), written by Jim Starlin.


Fictional character biography

Star Hawkins is a down-at-heel private investigator living in New City,
Earth in the 21st Century. He is first shown in 2079, with a robot
receptionist, cleaner and general dogsbody, Ilda (Robot F2324), bought
from the 'Super-Secretary Robot Factory'. Because Star is always short
of money, Ilda is regularly pawned (although Star always promises that
was the last time). Although a sharp detective with athletic skills, it
is normally Ilda who exhibits the intelligence and power to solve the
crime or is critical to defeating the '' 'zips' ''(criminals) with
low-powered telepathic ability - '' 'standard equipment in all models
the year of Ilda's manufacture' '', or other robot powers.

His first known case comes when he is paid to hunt for a Martian who had
been paid to go into hiding to avoid being a witness over the ownership
of a jewel mine, which he solves on his own. However, for his next
cases it is Ilda who accidentally cracks a betting and forgery scam,
and uncovers a robot theft scam when pawned once again, then steps in
and takes the next job when Star is injured while fighting the Metal Men
of Andromeda. Eventually Star's reputation gets work from the
National Science Center, Earth's law-enforcement agency, although it
does not solve his perennial money problems.

Star Hawkins cases often have a humorous edge to them - once Ilda
accidentally cleans the wrong apartment (in 2079 everyone has an
identical apartment with the same furniture and accessories in the same
place) and breaks up an alien invasion plan being plotted in the flat
above '' 'terrible danger - apartment upstairs - alien invasion' ''.
She diagnoses a robot criminal as mad because he literally '' 'has a
screw loose' '', falls in love with a robot that is part of an alien
invasion plan, and attempts a film career (as Scarlet O'Toole in
'Gone With the Rust' - with a robot that looks like Cary Grant),
although she was only being duped for her information on Star.

Ilda cracks another case when, jealous of Star's attention to a stunning
blonde, accidentally discovers an interplanetary spy ring, although
her 'Intuition Tubes' were wrong for once - the blonde was not one of
the gang but an undercover agent for the government who had infiltrated
them. Shortly afterwards Ilda gets a massive electric shock which
scrambles her circuits into thinking she's the criminal 'The Slinker
From Saturn'. They come up against one group of space
terrorists, the 'League of Five Planets', more than once; thwarting a
plan to steal security codes and attack Earth's outer planetary
bases and then defeating them again in their last ever case more
than fifteen years later.

On three occasions, by blind luck Star Hawkins and Ilda become catalysts
for significant changes to robot rights. Ilda is saved from being
scrapped, having reached the end of her robot model's life, reprieved by
the Government in recognition of her usefulness in crime solving. Both
her and Star receive a Medal of Valor and incidentally save all other
robots of her model from the obsolescence law. Star and Ilda are
also instrumental in changing apartheid-style rules when solving a case
in a resort hotel in the asteroid belt. Prior to this case, robots
were classed as servants and not allowed in hotels but forced to stay
outside. After Ilda smuggles herself into the hotel and Star and her
prevent a crime, the law is repealed. Their third piece of legal history
comes when Star retires and all robots are given their freedom and the
right to 'life-pairing' because of Ilda's heroism.

Star Hawkins retires in 2092, after defeating the 'League of Five
Planets' again and earning 250 million credits reward. He marries Stella
Sterling, a girl he had been guarding during this last case, and a
descendant of Prof. Miller Sterling, the creator of Automan; while Ilda
marries Automan. They open the 'Hawkins-Sterling Academy of Robot
Detection', and Automan and Ilda become Head of Faculty, training robots
as private detectives.

At some stage after this Star is transported back to the 20th Century,
although how and why is unknown. Eventually he takes up living on
'Harore Station', a corrupt commercial satellite station with a
population of several million in a free space zone between a number of
trading civilisations. Now a tragic figure, he lives near the Stardocks
'' 'just an old man watching ships take off and land' ''. Star has
lost his private investigator license, is down on his luck again and a
drunk - Captain Comet is his only known friend. Nobody is sure who or
what he was, Comet describes him as '' '... more than a bit crazy,
always claiming he was from the future whenever he got drunk' ''. Ilda
hangs broken in his room like a puppet; although Comet offers to help
fix her, Star won't because '' 'we'd never be able to get the ol' gal
the way she was - and the Star Hawkins she knew is ancient history.
Wouldn't want her to see me ... like ...' _. Star Hawkins is
murdered shortly afterwards by a rogue telepath.


Powers and abilities

Star Hawkins has no powers, he is an ordinary human. However, he does
have a sharp mind and a keen eye, and is athletic and physically quick,
and carries a ray gun. He is known to use an instant disguise spray to
look like an old man.

Ilda is highly intelligent, and able to use a range of robot abilities -
strength, supersonics, and can shoot electric bolts and use heat powers
by overloading her transistors or using an Infra-Red beam (normally used
for emergency cooking). She has Super-X vision, which enables her to
see through walls, a certain measure of telepathic ability and
'Intuition tubes' which warn her of danger (mainly from other females).
She is immune to ray-shots and can forensically analyze soil
samples.


Other versions

A version of Star Hawkins appears in the Twilight mini-series by
Howard Chaykin and José Luis García-López in 1990. In this version his
real name is Axel Starker, the estranged brother of Jon Starker,
Manhunter 2070. He is bitter and twisted, with a deep resentment of
Ilda, telling her he would have junked her years ago if he'd been
allowed to. Eventually John Starker merges with Ilda, and is killed on
an attack on the crazed dictator Tommy Tomorrow.


Reprints

One Star Hawkins story is reprinted in the  trade paperback
anthology "Pulp Fiction Library: Mystery in Space" (, 1999)
ISBN 1-56389-494-7

