STATIC is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books
published by . Created by Milestone Comics founders Dwayne
McDuffie, Denys Cowan, Derek Dingle, and Michael Davis and initially
written by McDuffie and Robert L. Washington III and drawn by John Paul
Leon, Static first appeared in Static #1 (June 1993), one of the
titles published by Milestone Comics, an imprint of . After the
closing of Milestone, Static was incorporated into the  Universe and
became a member of the Teen Titans.


Publication history

An African American teen, Static was a key character of Milestone
Comics, an independently-owned imprint of  with a greater
representation of minority heroes. Dwayne McDuffie has stated that the
creation of Static was a group effort. Originally developed for 
Comics, Static would become a main staple of the Milestone line. Much of
the inspiration for Static's character came from 's Spider-Man.
When initially creating the first five characters for Milestone Comics,
it was decided that Static would be created as a teenage hero who was a
contemporary version of Spider-Man. Static's civilian identity was
named after a black man who was denied entrance to the University of
Florida's law school in 1949. Milestone ceased publishing comics in
1997 but Static was saved from obscurity by the WB animated series
Static Shock, which aired for four seasons and led to the 2001 comic
book miniseries Static Shock: Rebirth of the Cool; The 2009 trade
paperback of this series was nominated for a Glyph Comics Award for Best
Reprint Collection.

McDuffie described the character:

  "Like any other awkward 15 year-old, Virgil Hawkins worries about
  pocket money, getting beaten up, and drugs. But recently, he's had
  even more on his mind: stuff like his powers, his secret identity,
  and drugs. Because, when innocents are in danger, and Virgil can slip
  away from class, the geeky youth becomes Static, the dashing,
  adventurous superhero!"

The character was introduced in one of the first four titles of comic
books published by Milestone in 1993, founded by Derek T. Dingle, Denys
Cowan, Dwayne McDuffie, and Michael Davis. His early adventures were
written by Robert L. Washington III and McDuffie, and penciled by John
Paul Leon. Virgil Hawkins was fifteen years old when he became Static.
In the comics, Virgil's family consists of his father, who works at
Paris Island Hospital; his mother; and his sister, Sharon. Virgil
attends Ernest Hemingway High School in the city of Dakota with his
friends: Frieda Goren, Richard "Rick" Stone, Larry Wade, Chuck, Felix,
and Daisy Watkins. In the guise of Static, Virgil eventually rescues
"Rick Stone" from gay bashing. Not unlike Spider-Man, the character has
a propensity for witty banter and humor, especially when engaged with
opponents. In addition, Virgil utilizes his knowledge of science and pop
culture in various battles and scenarios as Static.

A self-professed geek, Virgil is portrayed as avid comic book and video
game fan, something that was retained for his AU incarnation. In the
comics, Virgil regularly visits the local comic store, in addition to
creating fan comics with his friends, and participates in HeroClix-style
and other tabletop RPG games. In addition, he has been shown to be an
avid video gamer at several points in both his series and the Teen
Titans. In the 2001 miniseries, Static Shock: The Rebirth of the
Cool, it is shown that at that point in time, Virgil is into collecting
Pokémon cards and he likes Pikachu (the flagship Pokémon of the
franchise and a fellow user of electricity).

In an interview with former Teen Titans writer Geoff Johns, he
expressed interest in having Static as part of the team, stating, "I
really wanted Static on the team, but there’s so much red tape there
that every time I requested it  said 'not yet' and so I never got to
have him" and later stating he had plans for the character since Teen
Titans #1 (vol. 3). Any obstructions were eventually resolved and
Static appeared in the Terror Titans, with his Milestone continuity
folded in the mainstream New Earth continuity.

At the San Diego Comic-Con 2008, it was announced that Static would be
joining the mainstream  Universe where he would be added to the Teen
Titans. Static made his first canonical  Universe appearance in
Terror Titans #4, battling Rose Wilson in the final round of the Dark
Side Club Tournament.

In June 2010,  announced that Static would be receiving his own
series in 2011. The series was to be written by Felicia Henderson
and drawn by Scott McDaniel, but was cancelled before the first
issue could be released following the death of Static's creator, Dwayne
McDuffie. However, a one-shot entitled Static Shock Special was
released in June 2011, written by Henderson and drawn by Denys Cowan.
Batwoman artist JH Williams III provided the one-shot's cover. A
new Static Shock was launched in September 2011 as part of 's
relaunch after the Flashpoint event. The book is written by John Rozum
and drawn by Scott McDaniel, who also co-writes. As part of an
effort to better integrate Static into the mainstream U, the title
takes place in New York City rather than Dakota.


Fictional character biography

Milestone Universe

[Static, in his original costume, appearing on the cover of ''Static:
Rebirth of the Cool" #1] Doused with an experimental chemical in a gang
war he was caught up in, high school student VIRGIL OVID HAWKINS gains a
variety of electromagnetic powers and becomes a costumed crusader
against crime. Like most teenaged heroes in the Spider-Man mold, he is
often overwhelmed by the combined responsibilities of his career as a
superhero and typical adolescent problems.

Virgil first gained his electromagnetic powers at a huge showdown
between the gangs of the city, when he hoped to get revenge on a gang
member who had been bullying him. The authorities arrive and release
tear gas with what they believe to be a harmless radioactive marker so
that any gang members would not escape arrest. The cops do not know the
marker had been further spiked with an experimental mutagen called
Quantum Juice (Q-Juice). This event ultimately came to be known as the
so-called "Big Bang." Those who were exposed came to be referred to as
"Bang Babies" because the Big Bang was their metahuman birth.

When the agency behind the experiment tried to capture him, he fights
back, discovering that he has gained the ability to generate,
manipulate, and control electromagnetism. Virgil names himself "Static"
and, armed with his wits and powers, became a superhero. For the most
part, Virgil keeps his secret from his family, but his friend, Frieda
Goren, learns his identity when he attempts to protect her from becoming
a prize in a small skirmish between gangs.

Virgil has friends like Rick Stone & Larry Wade, he also has a romantic
interest in his other friend Frieda Goren but she was already involved
with Larry Wade. He also has feelings for a girl named Daisy Watkins,
but his 'responsibilities' as Static interfere with their dates too many
times and Daisy calls their relationship off. In Static Shock: Rebirth
of the Cool, Virgil is involved with a girl named Madison, but Frieda
ends up fighting with her over him.

Static has had confrontations with numerous Bang-Babies and other super
powered adversaries: Hotstreak, Tarmack, Holocaust, Commando X, Puff,
Coil, Snakefingers, Rift, The Swarm, Dr. Kilgore, Rubberband Man,
Brat-atat-tat, Prometheus, Run, Jump & Burn, Boom Box, Powerfist,
LaserJet, etc. Other Bang-Babies that Static has encountered include
Virus, D-Struct and Hyacinth.

Other heroes

Later in the comic line, Static is aided by allies: the Shadow Cabinet,
the Blood Syndicate, and PD officer Captain Summers, who has a big
interest in police cases involving Bang-Babies. Static teams up with
Page, the sidekick to Kobalt, in order to stop a maddened Bang-Baby who
had become half-fly. Static takes a moment to scold Page, who, in his
opinion, seems more concerned with making excuses over their initial
meet up than what was more important, stopping the danger.

Static ends up joining the unofficial group called Heroes. Multiple
superheroes come together to protect the town of Iberia from a dam
break. Many innocent citizens perish, but the heroes are still
recognized for their efforts in saving the survivors and doing what they
could. Static appears among the group, quips _"You started the X-Men
without me"_, and talks his way onto the team. Minutes later, the Shadow
Cabinet, now corrupt, sends a death squad after a few of his newfound
friends.

 Universe

Following the death of Darkseid (as chronicled in Final Crisis), the
space-time continuum was torn asunder, threatening the existence of both
the Dakotaverse and the mainstream  universe. The being known as
Dharma was able to use energies that he harnessed from Rift (upon that
being's defeat in Worlds Collide) to merge the two universes, creating
an entirely new continuity. Only Dharma, Icon, and Superman are aware
that Dakota and its inhabitants ever existed in a parallel universe.

Dark Side Club

In the buildup to the Final Crisis, the cosmic tyrant Darkseid hires
the Terror Titans to capture Static, along with a number of the other
Bang Babies in Dakota for use in the metahuman deathmatches in the Dark
Side Club. During his tenure in captivity, Virgil is subjected to the
Anti-Life Equation and entered into the tournaments, where he presumably
kills a number of combatants. He quickly becomes the champion, and
reigns undefeated for a time, though in the end, he proves hard to
control. To Clock King's displeasure, he has to be restricted to the
lower-levels where he is kept locked up and heavily sedated. In an
attempt to entice Rose Wilson and make a profit, Clock King releases
Static and sets him against Rose in the ring. In the ring, the two have
an intense fight where Static's lightning-fast attacks are able to
injure Rose, even despite her precognition. After a drawn-out fight,
Static emerges the winner, but briefly breaks free of control before
being sedated once more. Static is eventually freed by Rose (albeit off
panel) and takes his revenge against his former captors, electrocuting
Lashina and her cohorts as they try to escape. He also briefly duels
with fellow electricity-wielder Dreadbolt, defeating and binding him in
metal along with the other Terror Titans. In his final appearance he's
seen joining up with Miss Martian and Aquagirl, planning their next
move.

Joining the Teen Titans

After the Crisis has ended, Static and the other Dark Side Club
survivors arrive at Titans Tower in order to rest. Wonder Girl, the
current leader of the team, offers all of the young heroes spots on the
team roster, but most of them, including Terra and Zachary Zatara,
decline. While exploring the Tower, Virgil strikes up a chemistry with
Aquagirl (Lorena Marquez), a teenaged superheroine who was briefly a
member of the team during 52. During a conversation with Virgil, she
claims that she enjoyed her time with the team, and wishes to join up
again, a statement that influences his decision to do the same. He also
playfully insults Kid Devil and Jaime Reyes after they attempt to talk
to him, mocking Kid Devil over his recent loss of his abilities. He
claims that he was abducted by the Terror Titans months beforehand, and
realizes that his family must believe him to be dead. Believing he has
no place to go for the time being, Static decides to become a Titan and
live at the Tower until he can get his life together.

Later, when crazed former-Titan Jericho (in the guise of Cyborg) takes
control of the Tower and its systems in an attempt to kill the team,
Static thwarts him by releasing a high-energy charge overloading the
entire Tower, as well as Cyborg's body, saving the rest of the team in
the process.

During a trip to the piers in order to relax, the Titans face off with
the supervillain team known as the Fearsome Five, after they kidnap
Wonder Girl and hold her hostage on Alcatraz Island. In the ensuing
battle, Static defeats the villain known as Rumble by tricking him into
moving into a pool of water, thus amplifying the effects of his electric
attacks. In the aftermath of the battle, Virgil attends Kid Devil's
funeral after he is killed saving the city from a nuclear explosion.

When former Titan Raven shows up at Titans Tower injured and
unconscious, Static assists Justice Society of America member Dr.
Mid-Nite in helping treat her, using his abilities to sedate Raven when
a demon emerges from her body.

Brave and the Bold

It was recently revealed that prior to his abduction, Static teamed with
Justice League member Black Lightning in order to stop former Blood
Syndicate member Holocaust, who had tried to kill the superhero while he
was acting as the keynote speaker at Ernest Hemingway High's senior
graduation.

Return to Dakota

Virgil finally decides to see his family again after learning that a
deadly virus has been infecting citizens of Dakota, including Sharon.
After returning home, Virgil reunites with his family as well as Frieda,
and learns that his girlfriend Madison has left him during his absence.
He discovers that whoever created the virus is also selling limited
supplies of the vaccine, and attacks the lab where it is being made.
Upon breaking into the facility, Static is surprised and knocked out by
Holocaust.

After refusing to help Holocaust in his pursuits, Static is imprisoned
in a specialized containment unit alongside Aquagirl, Wonder Girl, and
Bombshell. Holocaust informs the heroes that he plans to kill them and
weaponize their abilities in order to sell them, but is ambushed by the
rest of the Titans before this can happen. Holocaust easily defeats
them, only to be confronted by Cyborg, who has recruited former Titans
Kid Flash and Superboy.

The three are able to hold off Holocaust long enough for Virgil and the
others to escape, and ultimately the combined might of all ten Teen
Titans is enough to defeat the villain once and for all. After this,
Virgil reconciles with Frieda and tells her that he has tricked his
family into believing that he has taken part in a lengthy quantum
physics fellowship, thus giving him an excuse to live in San Francisco
with the rest of the Titans. He also makes one last attempt to win back
Madison, but she silently rejects him. After this, Virgil and the other
Titans decide to head home, now with Superboy and Kid Flash as members
again.

After a mission to another dimension to rescue Raven, Virgil returns
home to find that he no longer has his powers. Furious and scared over
his situation, as well as his inability to help Miss Martian awaken from
her coma, Virgil attempts to leave the Tower and return to Dakota. He is
stopped by Cyborg, who tells Virgil that he will be of no help to anyone
back home without his abilities, and tells him that he has arranged for
Virgil to be taken to Cadmus Labs to find a way to get his powers back.
Superboy offers to travel to Cadmus in order to support his friend, but
Virgil tells him that the Titans need him now. Following a farewell
breakfast, Static leaves for Cadmus, with Wonder Girl assuring him that
he will always have a place on the team.

During the events of Flashpoint, Barry Allen accidentally alters
history after a battle with Professor Zoom. In the newly created
reality, Static is shown back in-costume with his powers restored.

The New 52

[Static's 2011 redesign and cover of the recent second solo series
(Static Shock #1). Art by Scott McDaniel.] Following the
reality-warping events of the 2011 "Flashpoint" storyline, Virgil and
his family leave Dakota for New York after an unspecified tragic
incident that, among other things, left his sister Sharon as two
separate, identical entities. The vigilante Hardware gives Virgil a new
costume and modified flying disk, which enables the two to remain in
contact despite living in different cities. Hardware also gives him an
internship at S.T.A.R. Labs as an after school job. During his first
major battle, Static defeats the villain Sunspot and earns the attention
of a criminal syndicate known as the Slate Gang.

Static Shock was cancelled as of issue 8 as part of 's "Second Wave"
of The New 52 titles and replaced by an alternative title.

In Teen Titans, it is revealed that Virgil designed the cape and wing
apparatus of Red Robin's costume while at S.T.A.R.

Later, while recuperating at S.T.A.R. Labs from a previous battle, the
Titans seek Virgil's help in curing Kid Flash, whose cells Virgil
discovers are rapidly deteriorating as a result of an alteration of his
powers. Virgil provides Kid Flash with a new costume (based on a
personal sketch for a variant of the Flash's costume) containing
materials that realign his molecules while stabilizing his powers,
saving Kid Flash in the process.

It is said that Static will be in a few of the Teen Titans New 52 comic
books, as a "member" just not a permanent fixture.


Powers and abilities

[Static #39. Art by Jeffery Moore.] Static's powers allow him to
control electromagnetic phenomena, in particular allowing him to
manifest both electrical and magnetic energy—Static's powers are best
described as superconductor electromagnetism.

Static's powers center around electromagnetism, making him part of the
Earth's electromagnetic field as well as capable of generating and
storing his own electromagnetic energy. He can choose to keep the
electromagnetic energy that he currently holds in his body by
controlling the current and voltage for whenever he wants to use it.
Static's body can generate raw electromagnetic energy, which he can
control at will for various purposes.

Such uses commonly include magnetizing objects, electrocuting opponents,
levitating objects (such as manhole-covers or his self-built metal
saucer for use in flight) and people, restraining or adhering
people/objects to various surfaces in the form of "static cling",
generating "taser punches" with effects similar to a stun gun and at
times enough power to send opponents flying during close combat, various
electromagnetic displays as well as electromagnetic nets or cages,
blinding flashes, generating thrown ball lightning, producing
electromagnetic pulses, and generating electromagnetic force fields to
shield himself from attacks, even stopping bullets in mid-air.

As well as releasing surges of electromagnetic energy, Static can also
drain sources of electricity, such as power lines, batteries and fuse
boxes to recharge/replenish his own energy supply. Whenever Static has
used his powers to a high degree, or experience any other such large
energy-drain, he will also experience a sudden, acute sense of fatigue,
as his electromagnetic powers are tied-in to his own bioelectric energy
levels. In the episode "Aftershock", in the 1st season of the animated
series, an analysis of his blood shows that Static's
electrolytes/blood-salt levels are higher-than-normal, highlighting that
Static needs higher blood-salt levels to support the use of his powers,
but the higher sodium levels seem to have no effect on his health.

Static can also sense and feel-out sources of electromagnetic energy,
able to tell if a seemingly abandoned area is actually hot or not.
Static can use his powers to hear radio waves and tap into phone lines,
including listening in on the police broadband and music stations, as
well as making calls, and is also able to use his powers to mimic the
uses of electronic devices such as a CD player (in "Aftershock", he also
called himself a "human CD player, (even got Surround sound)_"), and is
even able to use his powers to use an ordinary trashcan cover
simultaneously as a shotgun microphone and a loudspeaker. It's notable
that Static has more of a distinctive advantage in cities than
anywhere-else, as shown in the events of "Aftershock", as even in a
park, surrounded by trees, Static could make use of the metal pipelines
under the ground with his magnetic powers.

In the animated series, Static's powers grant him resistance or immunity
to forms of mind control, since the human brain is an electromagnetic
organ. In "Attack of the Living Brain Puppets", Static is immune to
Madelyn Spaulding's ability to hear the thoughts of others and exert
control over their actions, (as speculated by Richie,) Static's greater
bioelectric field shields him and his brainwaves from any attempts at
reading his mind and asserting control over him, as also seen in the
second part of "A League of Their Own", when one of Brainiac's
mind-controlling devices shorts out shortly after being placed on
Static. This trait has also been adapted into the comic book mythos; in
Terror Titans, Static is shown to have resistance to Darkseid's
Anti-Life Equation, coming back to his senses.

Following the events of "Flashpoint", Static is given a new flying disk
that now contains a holographic interface and is capable of collapsing
into separate pieces or re-configuring into various forms for various
uses and applications. In addition to allowing Static to remain in
contact with Hardware, the disk also displays charts and other
information relevant to the mission at hand. Virgil has also begun using
a collapsible bō staff in conjunction with his powers for use in
close-ranged fighting.

Static's body has been shown to automatically heal itself, even from
what would otherwise be lethal wounds, when drawing in large amounts of
energy from a nearby energy source.

Tim Drake has stated that Virgil's understanding of molecular structure
rivals the Flash's.

Virgil Hawkins is a highly gifted student with a particular interest in
the sciences. He is a talented inventor and a natural strategist. Virgil
also possesses an almost fanboyish knowledge of comic books, role
playing games, pop culture, and science fiction.

Weaknesses

Static's primary weaknesses are insulators, as his powers have little or
no effect on them; as shown in his battle with Rubberband Man. Wood
seems to be the one he has the most difficulty with, as it cannot be
electromagnetically manipulated, levitated, or damaged(which makes
little sense considering the effect lightning has on trees).

In the animated series, he has a vulnerability to water which strips him
of his power until he replenishes it. Interestingly, this weakness only
applies in the animated series as Static has never shown a weakness to
water in the comics and has even used it to his advantage.


Other versions

Milestone Forever

Static appears as a major character in the 2010 limited series
Milestone Forever, a project designed to detail the final fates of the
Milestone launch characters prior to being assimilated into 's
continuity. In Static's tale, the reader first learns that Virgil is
attending his ten year high school reunion, and has given up his life of
crime-fighting and is now pursuing a career in medicine. Rick (now going
by his television moniker of "Richie") is also now working as a director
in Los Angeles, and is open about his homosexuality. Without warning,
Hotstreak (recently released from prison and now calling himself
FIREWHEEL), attacks the reunion, claiming that he now realizes that
Static must have been one of his old classmates. Virgil briefly takes up
the Static mantle again for one last fight with his old nemesis, and
eventually defeats him. During this time, it is also revealed that
Sharon is now married and pregnant, and that Robert has died. Rocket is
implied to have taken over as the new Icon.

The story then skips ahead another ten years to show that Virgil is now
married to Frieda and has two children, Larry and Sadie (both of whom
have inherited his electrical abilities), and now works as a doctor. The
story ends with the couple reflecting on their life, and Virgil
playfully asking Frieda if she wants him to return to his role as
Static. She simply smiles and tells him "absolutely not", and the two
passionately kiss.


Supporting characters

Static has a number of supporting characters in his from best friends
Rick Stone, Larry Wade and Frieda Goren to sometime love interest Daisy
Watkins, and so on.

See List of Static supporting characters


Enemies

Static has dealt with a host of criminals through his career as a hero.
While the majority are metahumans/bang-babies like himself, he has had a
few that are merely humans with considerable wealth and resources or
highly advanced technology and weaponry.

See List of Static enemies


In other media

Television

-   The character Static was developed into the lead of the animated
    series Static Shock with some changes in the material, generally
    to make the character more suitable for a younger and wider
    audience, but still with a focus on contemporary relevance. In the
    series' first two seasons, Static's outfit was a purple coat with
    yellow inner lining and stripes on his coat sleeves, a white shirt
    with his trademark black lightning bolt symbol, black pants with a
    white mask, and yellow goggles. By season three, his wardrobe is
    mostly black and purple with some gold/yellow highlights, and the
    yellow goggles are replaced with dark purple shades; this wardrobe
    later appears in his Teen Titans comics appearance. His future
    self wears a similar, but slightly darker tone-wise, scheme. In the
    animated series, Virgil Hawkins (voiced by Phil LaMarr) is a
    fourteen-year-old honors student at Dakota Union High School who
    gains his powers by a mutagenic gas explosion, dubbed "the Big Bang"
    by the media, which grants numerous residents of Dakota superpowers;
    those affected are likewise dubbed "Bang Babies". Virgil lives with
    his father Robert Hawkins, a social worker and the head of the
    Freeman Community Center, and his sister Sharon Hawkins, a
    university student and hospital volunteer. His mother Jean Hawkins
    died a few years prior, the victim of a stray bullet while she
    worked as a paramedic during a riot; her death causes Virgil to
    develop an intense fear/hatred of guns. In "Static in Africa," it is
    revealed (or at least hinted at) that Virgil and his family are all
    of Ghana ancestry (although no relatives are mentioned). Static
    idolizes other positive black superheroes in his world, such as Soul
    Power, Anansi the Spider (who befriends Virgil and calls him "his
    hero" as well), and particularly the Green Lantern John Stewart.
    Over the course of the series, Static teams up with many  heroes
    including Batman and Robin, Batman's future successor Terry
    McGinnis, the Justice League, and even Superman himself. The episode
    "Future Shock" reveals that by the time of Batman Beyond, Static
    is considered one of the world's greatest heroes; he also has a son
    who is hinted to be a hero as well.
-   The adult Static appears in the Justice League Unlimited episode
    "The Once and Future Thing Pt. 2: Time, Warped", voiced again by
    Phil LaMarr. He is still an active member by the age of 65. Static
    appears to have aged little in the forty years between Static
    Shock and Batman Beyond. Although Batman states that Static in
    his time is at least fifty, he appears to be in perfect health when
    he is finally shown. In the ten years between Batman Beyond and
    his appearance in Justice League Unlimited, the only change seems
    to be that his hair has finally grayed. Static explains that this
    was due to advanced medical technology in the future. During a
    battle against the Jokerz, Static accidentally fell into a random
    time portal, which is undone when time is repaired. When
    everything's back to normal after the time warp is fixed, Static is
    still alive in the future.
-   Virgil appears in Young Justice: Invasion, voiced by Bryton James.
    He first appears in the episode "Beneath" as one of the teens
    abducted by the Reach. He has his first speaking role in the series
    on the episode "Cornered", where Virgil tells Black Canary about the
    experiments the Reach had put him through. He unknowingly displays
    his manifested electrical powers when a bunch of paper clips ended
    up stuck together by his electrostatic abilities. In the episode
    "Runaways", he and his fellow abductees (based on the various ethnic
    heroes from Super Friends, with Static taking the place of Black
    Vulcan) run away from Star Labs when they grow sick of the
    constant testing. He and the other runaways are stopped by Blue
    Beetle and help him to battle Red Volcano, saving the scientists
    and staff. When Blue Beetle ignores the potential harm he is causing
    during the battle and tries to forcibly take them with him, Virgil
    and the others escape. The group then are met by Lex Luthor who
    recruits them. In the episode "The Hunt", Virgil and his friends
    destroy everything in sight relating to the Reach until Luthor
    convinces them to rescue the members of the Team from Warworld
    (which is now under the Reach's control), using a Father Box to get
    there and track down Superboy. Once on board, they are attacked by
    the Reach's enforcers and Black Beetle, who causes them trouble
    until Arsenal intervenes and frees Mongul, triggering a fight
    between him and Black Beetle. After the Team is rescued, Nightwing
    offers a place on the Team for the runaways, but they refuse when he
    kicks Arsenal off the Team despite him saving their lives and
    they leave. Arsenal then tells the group that Luthor was using them
    and the abductees break ties with Luthor and leave with Arsenal. In
    "Endgame", Virgil and Black Lightning take down the Magnetic Field
    Disruptor in Dakota City. Impressed, Black Lightning tells him if he
    ever needs a mentor, he should let him know. After the battle,
    Wonder Girl and Robin welcome Virgil, now going by the name
    "Static", to the team. He does not wear his costume in this show,
    however his street clothes resemble those of his Teen Titans
    costume, but in the episode "Endgame" he is shown with his circled
    lightning logo on his T-shirt briefly on the Watchtower. In this
    version, when Static flies on a disc, his electricity is shown to be
    directed towards the ground, presumably caused by the
    grounding effect.
-   In October 2014, it was announced that Warner Bros. would be
    launching a live-action Static Shock program from Reginald Hudlin
    as part of the company's new Blue Ribbon Content digital division,
    and are eyeing Jaden Smith for the role of Virgil
    Hawkins/Static. On May 24, 2015, actor Tyler James
    Williams announced in an interview that Jaden Smith was cast as
    Static, but this has yet to be confirmed by Blue Ribbon Content or
    by Warner Bros.

Film

-   Virgil has a non-speaking cameo in Justice League: War. He can be
    seen sitting behind Billy Batson during Victor Stone's
    football game. His appearance is similar to that of his Young
    Justice counterpart. This is the character's first appearance in a
     film.

Video game

-   Static appears in  Universe Online. He is seen as part of the
    Lightning Strikes DLC, fighting alongside other Titans.
    Static is a bounty for those on the villain campaign and is sighted
    in the west of the Temple of Crime. He wears his dark colored Teen
    Titans costume in this game.
-   Static is a downloadable playable character in the mobile version of
    Injustice: Gods Among Us.

