STEEL (JOHN HENRY IRONS), also known as the MAN OF IRON, is a fictional
character, a superhero in the  Universe. First appearing in The
Adventures of Superman #500 (June 1993), he is the second character
known as Steel and was created by Louise Simonson and artist Jon
Bogdanove. Aspects of the character are clearly inspired by the
African American folk hero John Henry, as well as Superman.


Fictional character biography

The Death of Superman: The Man of Steel

Doctor John Henry Irons was a brilliant weapons engineer for AmerTek
Industries, who eventually became disgusted when the BG-60, a powerful
man-portable energy cannon he had designed, fell into the wrong hands
and was used to kill innocent people. As the company would have coerced
him to retain his services, John faked his death, and eventually came to
Metropolis. While working a construction job high up on a skyscraper, he
fell off while saving a friend from the same fate. His own life was
saved by none other than Superman. When John Irons asked how he could
show his gratitude, Superman told him to "live a life worth saving."
During Superman's fatal battle against Doomsday, Irons attempted to help
Superman fight the deadly menace by picking up a sledge hammer, but was
buried in rubble amidst the devastation. Shortly after Superman's death,
he finally awoke and crawled from the wreckage, confused and saying that
he "must stop Doomsday."

He recovered, but to discover that the gangs in inner-city Metropolis
(now unopposed by Superman) were fighting a devastating gang war using
BG-80 Toastmasters, an upgraded version of his earlier AmerTek design.
Irons created and donned a suit of powered armor in Superman's memory in
order to stop the war, as well as the weapons, which were being
distributed by Dr. Angora Lapin (also known as the White Rabbit), a
former partner and lover during his time at AmerTek Industries.

[The various incarnations of Steel.]

The "Reign of the Supermen" story arc saw the rise of four "Supermen"
who were differentiated from each other with nicknames previously
applied to Superman; Irons was referred to as the "Man of Steel", which
was later shortened to "Steel" by Superman himself.

Although Steel never claimed to be the "true Superman", Lois Lane
seriously considered the possibility that he was a walk-in — someone who
was now inhabited by Superman's soul. Lois met all four "Supermen" that
appeared after the apparent death of Superman, and while she never
concluded that any of them was the one true Superman, she evinced less
skepticism of Steel than she did of the others.

Steel solo series

Steel was spun off into a solo series, written by co-creator Louise
Simonson and later by Christopher Priest, from 1994–1998.

The series began by having Steel leave Metropolis and return home to
Washington, D.C., revealing that it had been five years since he had
left. He erroneously believed that his old employers, AmerTek, would no
longer be interested in him. This turned out to be false when they
attacked his home. Between this attack and his knowledge that the
Toastmasters were now being used on the streets of D.C., he reforged his
armor (it was now stronger than ever); he began his crusade against
AmerTek, which he correctly knew was responsible for leaking the weapons
onto the street. Steel decided not to use the "S" emblem, however, since
he felt that his battle might take him outside the law.

Steel's family was introduced in this series: his grandparents, Butter
and Bess, his sister-in-law Blondell, and her five children: Jemahl,
Natasha, Paco, Tyke, and Darlene (the latter two are foster
children).

Steel's early adventures pit him against AmerTek and against the gangs
that are using his weapons. His nephew, Jemahl, is involved in one of
the gangs, which he thinks offers him protection. He is proven wrong,
however, when the gangs turn against him to get to Steel. Tyke is
paralyzed by a bullet meant for Jemahl and Blondell is assaulted. Steel
eventually takes down AmerTek and the gangs and focuses on who was
helping AmerTek distribute the weapons. This leads him to track down a
group called Black Ops, led by the villain, Hazard.

Steel briefly joined up with Maxima, who was still on Earth at the time
and working with the Justice League, to help her with an alien warlord
named De'cine. During this time, Steel developed the ability to teleport
his armor onto and off himself. At first, it appeared purely by reflex
(whenever he was in mortal danger) but he soon began to better control
it, although he had no idea how it happened.

Steel continued his battle against Hazard's Black Ops and against the
return of the White Rabbit. A bounty hunter named Chindi attempted to
take down Steel, but after realizing Hazard was experimenting with
children, he ended up as an ally of Irons. He was called away from
Earth as part of the Superman "Rescue Squad" when Superman was put on
trial for the destruction of Krypton.

Tragedy would strike the Irons family upon his return from space. Tyke,
frustrated and angry over his handicap, betrayed John Henry's true
identity to men working with Hazard. Hazard unleashed a cyborg named
Hardwire, who opened fire on the Irons family. Most of them received
minor injuries, though Butter is seriously wounded. Child protective
services came to reclaim Tyke and Darlene. Tyke is later shown to end up
in the custody of Hazard. Hardwire battles Steel at the Washington
Monument, resulting in Hardwire's suicide. Steel had to send his armor
away to save his life — this resulted in his secret identity being
revealed to the world at large. Steel is then taken by Hazard, but he
manages to escape. Steel retrieves an anti-matter weapon, called the
Annihilator, which he had designed and hidden years before, for his
showdown with Hazard. He also learns at this point that he can teleport
himself, not just his armor. He destroys Hazard and his lair and in the
battle, three young soldiers of Hazard are apparently killed by
Irons.

Now that Steel's identity is out, his family has no peace. They are
harassed by neighbors and mobs of people. Then the family is attacked by
Doctor Polaris, Parasite, and others. John Henry's beloved grandmother,
Bess, is killed and the family is forced to go into hiding, relocated by
a friend of Steel's called Double.

Steel learns that the three Black Ops agents were not truly killed. They
briefly join him in battling a monstrous, animated form of his armor
that attacks him. Steel speculates that the armor came alive because of
his own guilt and the strange teleportation effects. He manages to
banish the monster and recall his true armor.

The title received a shakeup when Christopher Priest became the lead
writer for issue #34. Steel relocated to Jersey City, New Jersey with
Natasha, and began to work at Garden State Medical Center. He built a
new suit of armor that was significantly less powerful than the previous
one (but one that featured the return of an "S" shield on it). While in
Jersey City, he clashed with Dennis Samuel Ellis, a resident at Garden
State Medical and rival for the affections of another colleague, Amanda
Quick. Hospital administrator and gang leader Arthur Villain recruited
Ellis to become his personal bodyguard. Given a suit with several hidden
weapons, Ellis adopted the name "Skorpio" and became a recurring nemesis
for Steel. Eventually, Steel was reunited with his brother, Clay, who
was a hitman that everyone assumed had been killed. Clay assumed the
alias "Crash" and managed to acquire a pair of Steel's flightboots
before turning himself in so that he could save his daughter Natasha
when she needed a blood transfusion. The series was canceled with issue
#52 which featured Steel running the hospital after the unmasking of its
previous coordinator, Dr. Villain (pronounced "Will-hane").

Worlds Collide

During the Worlds Collide crossover series between  and Milestone
Media, Steel encounters his Milestone counterpart Hardware. Each hero
questions the other's motivations; Steel believes Hardware is too
rebellious while Hardware believes Steel is too trusting and naive.

JLA and the Men of Steel

Around the time of Steel's cancellation, he was recruited as a member of
the Justice League, due to Batman's concern that the League was already
top-heavy in brawn and required more thinkers. During his time in the
League, Steel played a crucial role in the defeat of villains such as
Prometheus and the Queen Bee. He even served as the leader of the
reserve team- consisting of Huntress, Barda, Plastic Man, and Zauriel-
left in the present during the  One Million crisis. Following the
battle against Mageddon, he ceased to serve as a full-time member of the
League, although he stayed on as a supporting member for quite some
time. He also became a regular member in the Superman titles, having
relocated with Nat to Metropolis to run his own workshop there, called
"Steelworks." He also revealed at this time that he had known Superman's
identity for some time. The two became partners of a sort and John Henry
helped Superman build a new Fortress of Solitude, although he maintained
some contacts with the Justice League, as shown when he was able to
contact Batman to help Superman find Lois Lane after she had been
abducted by the Parasite.

Steel retired from active duty during the Imperiex War after he was
injured while wearing the Entropy Aegis, an alien armor created on the
evil planet, Apokolips; it nearly consumed his "soul" after he was taken
by the Black Racer while attempting to release Doomsday and use him
against Imperiex.

Retirement

During his retirement, Irons made a suit of armor for his niece Natasha
Irons, who became the new Steel. Although he was no longer actively
fighting crime, he remained an important ally of Superman. He
unintentionally usurped the position of Emil Hamilton as Superman's
technology guru, one of several developments that led to the emergence
of Ruin.

52

John Henry Irons donned his armor once more in the wake of the Battle of
Metropolis during Infinite Crisis. Along with most of Earth's united
heroes, Steel helped defeat the Secret Society of Super Villains in
Metropolis, but became bitter with life and a perceived narcissism
within Earth's superhero community. After the disaster, John baited his
niece Natasha into an argument in which he prevented her from leaving
Metropolis to join the Teen Titans. John refused to let her go and
ordered her to continue collecting all the debris in the city,
culminating in him destroying her armor in spite.

He later identifies a recently discovered corpse as that of a Lex Luthor
from a parallel universe, namely Alexander Luthor, Jr., exonerating the
real Lex Luthor from all of his recent crimes.

A week later, at his Steelworks facilities, John Henry appears to be
hallucinating due to the effects of an unknown metabolic toxin. Irons'
flesh appears to be in the middle of transforming into metal just before
the lab explodes.

Three days later, Steel, again wearing his armor, is called in by Doctor
Mid-Nite to help him with the wounded heroes returned from space after
the Crisis. He uses Pseudocytes to aid in Mal Duncan's recovery.

With the help of Kala Avasti from S.T.A.R. Labs, John learns that he was
injected with a small dosage of Lex Luthor's new exo-gene therapy,
causing his skin to mutate into stainless steel and back again. He
returns to Steelworks to find Natasha attempting, and failing, to build
a new suit. She then claims he is a hypocrite for accepting Lex's
exo-gene treatment, not aware of the truth.

Three days and two nights later, Irons appears, transformed into a man
of living steel, (similar to 's Legion character Ferro Lad and the
 character Colossus), at a party held by Lex Luthor. In a rage, he
attacks Luthor, demanding to see Natasha and threatening or endangering
anyone that gets in his way. However, Natasha herself soon appears to
stop John before he kills Luthor. John, still enraged, is then beaten by
Natasha singlehandedly until he comes to his senses. Realizing that
Natasha was right to stop him from killing Luthor, he admits it, but
maintains that he is right, too. He then asks Natasha to "give it up,
come home". Natasha responds by punching John repeatedly and sending him
flying into the Metropolis bay.

He then resurfaces several weeks later, having built a new suit of armor
for Natasha, to make up for his behavior toward her. He emotionally
breaks down when he realizes that it is too late to make amends.

He later returns to active duty, saving lives and discovers from Kala
that the exo-gene therapy allows Luthor to take away any powers he has
given out. He then shares his suspicions with the Teen Titans and a
former test subject who had his powers stripped away.

Investigating the Everyman Project along with Doctor Mid-Nite, Beast
Boy, and Kala on Thanksgiving, John discovers that his metal skin is
peeling off, realizing that the therapy grants powers only for a limited
time before they disappear completely.

In 52 Week 40, after Natasha was captured by Luthor, Irons, in his
full armor, leads the Teen Titans, consisting of Raven, Beast Boy,
Aquagirl, and Offspring, in an open assault on LexCorp. After defeating
armed robot guards and Infinity, Inc., Irons, with his armor destroyed,
engages Luthor in battle. However, Luthor gained similar abilities to
Superman and thrashes Irons. Natasha uses Irons' sledgehammer to create
an electromagnetic pulse that shuts down Luthor's exo-gene and John
Henry defeats him.

In 52 Week 47, John Henry and Natasha reestablish Steelworks.

Infinity, Inc.

Steel was one of the main characters of the Infinity Inc._ vol. 2
series, which debuted in September 2007. A year after the end of the
Everyman Project. Natasha is living with her uncle John Henry Irons and
is in psychotherapy along with Erik, who refers to it as "our national
religion" and Gerome. Another longterm patient, teenager Dale Smith,
attacks his therapist and realizes his powers as a psychic vampire.
Smith takes the name "Kid Empty". Apparently, a side effect of the
exogene therapy is that once the exogene itself is suppressed, the
energies unleashed by the therapy remains, re-enabling the metagene in a
different fashion. As a result, Natasha finds herself turning to a
mist-like substance, McKenna gains the ability to duplicate himself, and
Storn gains a powerhouse, overconfident, female alter-ego. The group
gains new members in Mercy Graves and Lucia, an Everyman subject who can
psychically inflict pain on others. In issue #8, the team gains official
costumes and codenames, and go on their first mission.

Upon the much solicited ending for the series, the Infinitors are
kidnapped by the Dark Side Club, as due to the exogene therapy, they're
unpredictable and undetectable by Apokoliptan technology, and a wild
card in the upcoming Final Crisis. Irons vows to scour the Earth for his
niece.

In recent months, John has been working with Batman, Zatanna, Mister
Miracle, the Metal Men, and assorted other technical geniuses in
creating a new body for Red Tornado. Unfortunately the Amazo program
infected the new body. Working together, Batman and John used the JLA
teleporting doorways to send Amazo into a red sun, after which they
completed a new body for the Red Tornado.

When Clock King takes over the Dark Side Club from Darkseid, he
"inherits" the imprisoned Infinitors, so, when the Dark Side Club is
finally destroyed, Miss Martian sends a "brain mail" to Irons, who comes
to free his niece, and finally reunites with her.

Superman

John Henry Irons has made multiple appearances in the regular Superman
series by James Robinson. He is attacked by the villain Atlas and
rendered comatose. While in the hospital, his technology is used to
keep the damage to Metropolis from being repaired. He plays a part
in the War of the Supermen event, where he helps Superboy, the Guardian,
and Natasha bring down Sam Lane's conspiracy. He has a rematch with
Atlas, whom he defeats.

Steel later appeared as one of the former JLA members called to
Washington D.C. in order to help pierce a massive energy dome that had
encapsulated the city. After a series of failed attempts to pierce the
dome, Steel suggests to Superman that it may be too powerful for the
heroes to destroy.

Reign of Doomsday

In January 2011, Steel featured in a one-shot comic, written by Doctor
Who novelist Steve Lyons. Sean Chen was initially announced as the
artist, but due to scheduling problems, Ed Benes took over the art
duties. Steel finds himself the only person who can defend
Metropolis from an attack by Doomsday. During the battle, Doomsday
inexplicably develops metallic armor and the power of flight, countering
Steel's own abilities. Steel attempts to immobilise Doomsday with
nanites, but he quickly overcomes them, and badly beats him. Doomsday
then picks up Steel's prone form and flies off with him. When Steel
awakens to find himself in a dimensional prison with Superboy,
Supergirl, the Eradicator, and Hank Henshaw all of whom have been
captured by Doomsday, he speculates that Henshaw was included in the
group to keep them divided and prevent them working together to find a
way of escaping. Their subsequent exploration of their prison reveals
that they were actually captured by clones of Doomsday created by Lex
Luthor to distract Earth's heroes while he sought the power of the Black
Power Ring, each Doomsday clone designed to eliminate the Superman it
was sent after.

The New 52

In The New 52 (a reboot of the  universe), John Henry Irons
first appears in Grant Morrison's Action Comics as a young scientist
working on the government's "Steel Soldier" program. He retaliates after
seeing the mistreatment of Superman by Lex Luthor (who was under the
command of General Sam Lane to torture him). Irons immediately
quits. When John Corben goes on a rampage after donning the
government's "Metal 0" suit, John Henry aids Superman in fighting him
off by using his own prototype armor for the first time, uploading a
virus into the Metal 0 suit that he designed specifically to shut it
down in the event of the user going rogue.

John Henry also shows up in Animal Man during the Rotworld crossover,
where he assists Buddy Baker when the world has been overrun by The Rot,
the elemental force of decay.

Brainiac used Doomsday to infect Superman and distract the world as
Cyborg Superman and himself tried to steal the minds of every person on
earth. As that transpires Steel teams up with Lana Lang to help Superman
and stop Brainiac. Afterwards Lana and John began to date.

Steel is recruited when Warworld appears above the Earth. He is
partnered with Batgirl and secretly inserted onto the planet in order to
neutralize its main threat, a planet cracking gun. They manage to do so
with moments to spare.


Powers and abilities

John Henry Irons has no superhuman abilities; however, he is an
extraordinary inventor and engineer, and a natural athlete who
frequently displays an impressive degree of strength. In addition, he
wears a suit of powered armor which grants him flight, enhanced
strength, and endurance. Steel modified his suit many times through his
career. The initial "Man of Steel" design was armed with a wrist-mounted
rivet gun and the sledgehammer (like the one used by his namesake John
Henry) that was ubiquitous for most of his designs. The original design
on his breastplate featured a metal version of Superman's "S" insignia
in tribute to the (temporarily) deceased hero, which Irons removed after
the return of Superman. Two later armor designs incorporated a similar,
but different, "S" symbol. A large hammer is also a key weapon in the
suit's arsenal. His most current "smart hammer" hits harder the farther
it is thrown, is capable of independent flight, and has an on-board
computer guidance and analysis system capable of detecting a target's
stress points.

When he wore the Entropy Aegis, he had god-like strength and durability
and could enlarge himself to giant size. He also had the ability of
flight due to energy wings, could travel through time and space at will,
and could fire blasts of energy that would reduce a target to its
composite elements. However, the Aegis made him very violent and was
slowly erasing his soul.

During the 52 event, John Henry Irons was altered by the Everyman
Project and had become composed of stainless steel due to Lex Luthor
tampering with John's DNA without John's consent. Steel's strength and
durability were now on a superhuman level. In addition, he could
generate enough heat to turn metal fluid (including his own body, which
he can then drip off of himself in small amounts). In 52 Week 29, the
metal skin peeled off completely, leaving him, again, a normal human. He
has since returned to using powered armor of a design similar to his
original "Man of Steel" armor.


Other versions

: The New Frontier

In the  miniseries : The New Frontier, a black man, JOHN
WILSON, takes on the name "John Henry" while donning a black hood
secured by a hangman's noose and produces a sledge hammer in an attempt
to avenge his family, who were murdered by the KKK. He kills two
Klansmen and injures many more before being injured; while hiding in a
barn he is discovered by a young white girl. He is then killed by the
Klansmen. John Henry Irons is seen in the epilogue reading near John
Henry's gravestone. This serves to further emotionally connect the hero
Steel and his namesake to the folk hero.

Kingdom Come

In the events of the Elseworlds' Kingdom Come series, Steel is seen to
have joined Batman's faction, due to Superman's self-imposed exile. His
suit now owes its stylings to Batman, rather than Superman, and he
carries a Bat-shaped axe rather than his hammer.

Hyper-Tension

In the story "Hyper-Tension", in the comic Superboy vol. 3 #62, it
shows a Steel in an alternate reality who joins Black Zero, an alternate
adult version of Superboy (Kon-El) in a war for clone rights.

Steel: Crucible of Freedom

In an Elseworlds tale featured in Steel Annual #1, "Steel: Crucible of
Freedom", John Henry is a slave and blacksmith who builds a suit of
armor for his master to fight in the Civil War. However, as his master
will not sit for measurements, John is forced to fit the suit to
himself, and uses it to lead the slaves in a revolt when his infant son
and the children of the other slaves drown due to the carelessness of
the Overseer. The story's epilogue tells how, after years spent fighting
for his fellow slaves' freedom and traveling the expanding United
States, this John Henry goes on to become the "steel drivin' man" of
American folklore.

Superman vs. the Terminator: Death to the Future

In the crossover Superman vs. the Terminator: Death to the Future,
Superman was temporarily transferred into the future of the Terminator
universe, where he encountered an older version of Steel who fought
alongside John Connor's resistance against Skynet as one of the last
costumed heroes, noting that many heroes died in Skynet's attack and he
operated on his own until meeting the Resistance. Although old by this
point, Steel remained as intelligent as ever, having fitted his hammer
with a voice-activation and anti-gravity unit that allowed him to call
his hammer to him in the event he was ever captured, using this ability
when he and Superman are briefly captured by Skynet.

JLA/Avengers

In the JLA/Avengers crossover, Steel plays a minor role, developing a
battery pack for the Flash so that he has access to his powers while in
the  Universe - since the Speed Force does not exist in the 
Universe, Steel's device allows Wally to "absorb" Speed Force energy
while he runs in the  Universe that he can use when in the 
Universe - later appearing on Paradise Island alongside the Flash to
stop the Vision, Quicksilver, and the Scarlet Witch from acquiring the
Evil Eye of Avalon. He then participates in the fight against Krona's
minions in the final battle, fighting Atlanteans alongside Namor, Beast,
Plastic Man, and Maxima.


In other media

Television

[Steel in Superman: The Animated Series]

-   John Henry Irons has appeared in Superman: The Animated Series,
    voiced by Michael Dorn. John Henry Irons is a designer for LexCorp
    who works to create a prototype suit of powered armor for the
    Metropolis SCU, but the suit's neural interface system had adverse
    psychological effects on its user Sgt. Corey Mills. Encouraged by
    Superman, Irons worked to perfect the suit with the help of his
    niece Natasha, becoming the superhero Steel just in time to help
    Superman in a battle against Metallo. The animated Steel is missing
    the cape he adapted from Superman after he saved John's life in
    Superman: The Man of Steel #19, and lacks his 'S' shield (although
    he does wear a jersey with a 5 on the front, a possible homage). In
    his premiere episode "Heavy Metal", his rivet guns were replaced
    with forearm-mounted lasers.
-   Steel appeared in Justice League Unlimited, voiced by Phil LaMarr.
    He is seen as a member of the expanded Justice League. Steel has
    appeared regularly in the company of Superman and Supergirl.
-   Steel will appear in Season 2 of Justice League: Gods and Monsters
    Chronicles.

Film

[Shaquille O'Neal as Steel]

-   In 1997, a feature film was produced based on this version of
    the character. The film Steel stars professional basketball player
    Shaquille O'Neal in the title role and Judd Nelson as a new villain
    named Nathaniel Burke. The film was originally designed to be a
    spin-off of the new Superman film that used the "Death of Superman"
    storyline that first introduced the character in the comics. The
    project languished in development hell for so long the spinoff moved
    forward without the film it was to be attached to. The movie
    (released on August 15) was considered a flop both critically
    and financially. Steel was produced for an estimated $16,000,000
    but grossed $1,686,429 at the box office.
-   A very young John Henry Irons appears in the animated film Justice
    League: The New Frontier reading a comic book nearby the gravestone
    of the ": The New Frontier" version of John Wilson, also known as
    John Henry, who is reportedly killed in the film.
-   John Henry Irons appears in Justice League: Throne of Atlantis,
    voiced by Khary Payton. He is seen wielding a hammer and is seen
    defending a colleague from an Atlantean before he is saved
    by Superman.
-   An alternate universe version of John Henry Irons appears in
    Justice League: Gods and Monsters, voiced again by Khary Payton.
    He is depicted as a scientist who is a member of LexCorp's "Project
    Fair Play." John was discussing with the other scientists involved
    (consisting of Will Magnus, Michael Holt, Karen Beecher, Pat Dugan,
    Kimiyo Hoshi, Emil Hamilton, Thomas Morrow, and Stephen Shin) before
    they are all killed by the Metal Men with the exception of Will
    Magnus (who secretly orchestrated the attack).

Radio

-   British radio producer Dirk Maggs produced a Superman radio series
    for BBC Radio 5 in the 1990s. When the "Death of Superman" story arc
    happened in the comics, Maggs presented a very faithful, though much
    pared down version of the tale, which featured Stuart Milligan as
    Clark Kent/Superman, Lorelei King as Lois Lane, and William Hootkins
    as Lex Luthor. John Henry Irons was played by film actor Leon
    Hebert, who coincidentally appeared as a reporter in Tim Burton's
    first Batman movie. The story arc was packaged for sale on cassette
    and CD as Superman: Doomsday and Beyond in the UK and as Superman
    Lives!_ in the USA.

Video games

-   Steel is a main character in the side-scrolling beat 'em up video
    game The Death and Return of Superman for the Super NES and
    Genesis.
-   Steel appears in the 2002 video game Superman: The Man of Steel,
    voiced by Billy Brown.
-   Steel appears in the MMORPG  Universe Online voiced by
    Ken Thomas.

