STRANGE VISITOR aka SHARON VANCE first appeared in Superman v2, #149
of October 1999, wearing Superman's old containment suit and was soon
discovered to be Kismet.


Fictional character biography

Because of a lightning strike on a plane, the cosmic entity Kismet and
Sharon Vance (Clark Kent's childhood friend from Smallville) became one
entity known as the Strange Visitor. She had become a being of pure
electromagnetic energy, and was drawn to the laboratories of Professor
Emil Hamilton, who still had one of Superman's containment suits (from a
period when he was temporarily converted to electromagnetic energy).
Emil modified the suit to fit her since test results showed that her
energy field was dissolving, and the suit would help her maintain solid
form. Her memories were weak, and even though she easily uses her powers
to magnetically levitate trains over destroyed tracks, destroy alien
attackers with an electromagnetic pulse, and absorb the powers of a
self-proclaimed "god of war", she still wasn't sure who she really was.

Even more disturbing was the fact that her emotional state was affecting
her powers, and when she became angry or upset, her power levels surged
to the point where her containment suit was almost unable to handle all
of the energy. If the suit were to fail, she would lose her
physical form. A battle with the Parasite restores her powers and her
memories.

She later went on to become a hero in her own city. She fought Gorilla
Grodd in New York, but was accused of attacking a "monkey".

In Batman: Our Worlds at War (Aug 2001) it is seen that a facility
under control of Lex Luthor is keeping tabs on her.

When the Imperiex fleet attacks Earth, Strange Visitor gives all of her
powers to Superman to give him the necessary power boost to defeat
Imperiex. He defeats the powerful entity by cracking his armour and
draining his energy, an act which ended her life (although she noted
that 'Sharon Vance' had died when she was created and what was left to
form Strange Visitor was just the essence of Sharon giving her a
personality), while opening the way for Superman to vanquish Imperiex
and save the universe.


Powers and abilities

Strange Visitor is connected to the Earth's geomagnetic field, and has
the power to manipulate electromagnetic energies, which enables her to
fire blasts of electrical energy from her hands or eyes, generate
magnetic fields to move, lift, and manipulate metal objects, create
force fields, steal energy from others, and even "read" an object's
magnetic field. She also has the power to fly at near light speeds,
lower her density to walk through solid matter, and telepathically sense
emotions.


In other media

Television

In Young Justice: Invasion, a normal Sharon Vance appears in the
Season 2, episode "True Colors", as a tour guide at a Lexcorp farming
facility. She is voiced by Masasa Moyo.

