STRIKER Z is a fictional superhero published by . He first
appeared in JLA #61, (February 2002), but his origin is told in Power
Company: Striker Z #1, (March 2002). Striker Z was created by Kurt
Busiek and Tom Grummett.


Fictional character biography

DANIEL "DANNY" TSANG is a stuntman for Fragrant Harbor Films in Hong
Kong. During the filming of Unclean Policeman IV director Dickson
Kurata sneaks a crew into the basement laboratory of the Hong Kong
branch of S.T.A.R. Labs. Danny is distracted while performing a
dangerous stunt over a vat of experimental fuel cell plasma. The
mutagenic compound permeates his cells and alters his body chemistry
transforming him into a superstrong human battery. His best friend is
former S.T.A.R. Labs scientist Charlie Lau; Charlie creates his uniform
and invents his Striker Plates and Flight Jacket.

On his first adventure he helps Superboy defeat the Golden Sorcerer,
actually a transformed Dickson Kurata who had also bathed in the fuel
cell plasma. The Golden Sorcerer's energy supply is much greater than
Striker Z's and so is able to manifest solid energy constructs. Superboy
is finally able to defeat the Golden Sorcerer by attaching Striker Z's
Omega Cannon to his body and using it to siphon off all his energy.

Danny re-appears in Power Company #1 and remains with the team until
the series finale in issue #18.

He later appears unconscious and lying on the floor of a S.T.A.R. Labs
facility after it is attacked by Doctor Impossible and his partners. The
Guardian later mentions to his fellow Justice League members that
Danny's pelvis was broken during the battle.


Powers and abilities

Danny is a human "bio-energy" battery due to his exposure to an unnamed
compound. Danny has limited superstrength and enhanced stamina, but
these abilities appear to be tied to his available store of energy. He
is also a trained stunt man and expert practitioner of an unspecified
martial art.

Danny wears a special fiber mesh costume which helps conduct the energy.
His visor contains digital audio/video recording hardware, as well as
high and low spectrum visual capabilities. Danny carries a variety of
devices powered by his bio-energy, including:

-   DAZZLE STROBE: disorients enemies blinding bursts of
    stroboscopic light.
-   FLIGHT JACKET: decked out with hundreds of tiny impeller jets, the
    jacket allows him to fly short distances.
-   OMEGA CANNON: concentrates all his bio-energy in one directed blast,
    but its use leaves him helpless.
-   PHOTONIC SHIV: a short blade made from coherent light.
-   SONIC BEAMER: broaasts disorienting soundwaves, or concussive
    blasts of focused sound.
-   STRIKER PLATES: can concentrates energy for concussive blows capable
    of punching through concrete or shattering steel, or disabling jolts
    like an electroshock weapon.

