SUPER-CHIEF is the name of several fictional characters, three
superheroes and one supervillain in the  universe. Created by
Gardner Fox and Carmine Infantino, the first Super-Chief debuted in
All-Star Western #117 (March 1961). The second (villainous)
Super-Chief debuted in Adventures of Superman Annual #9 (1997) in a
story by Mike W. Barr (writer) and Dale Eaglesham (artist). The third
Super-Chief debuted in 52 Week 22 (October 2006), which was written by
the writers' consortium of Geoff Johns, Greg Rucka, Grant Morrison and
Mark Waid, and artist Eddy Barrows. The fourth debuted in Superman
#709, (May 2011), and was created by writer Chris Roberson and artist
Eddy Barrows.


Flying Stag

FLYING STAG was a member of the Wolf Clan in the 15th century. He was by
far their best warrior and knew he'd be able to win the contest to
become Royaneh, or Supreme Chief, of the Iroquois. Out of jealousy,
Flying Stag's rivals trapped him in a pit where he prayed to the Great
Spirit Manitou for help (the term "Manitou" is Algonquian). A meteorite
fell from the sky and when Flying Stag wore it he gained incredible
powers. He honored Manitou and called himself Saganowhana, or
Super-Chief. He became a hero and married White Fawn. The powers of the
mystical meteorite caused him to outlive everyone he knew.

Crisis on Infinite Earths

Super-Chief experienced a couple of time jumps into the 20th century
during the event known as Crisis on Infinite Earths. He allied himself
with several Western heroes along with the superhero Firebrand and her
former lover Cyclotron at one point during the Crisis.

Super Chief is one of the reanimated Black Lanterns in Weird Western
Tales #71.


Villainous Super-Chief of Dry Gulch

In Adventures of Superman Annual #9 (1997), a young Native American is
revealed to be in possession of the meteorite amulet and has agreed to
use the powers of Super-Chief to clear out the town of Dry Gulch to make
way for a gambling resort. He is defeated by Superman.


Jon Standing Bear

A new Super-Chief is introduced in 52 Week 22. A young Native American
veteran and ex-con named JON STANDING BEAR travels to Metropolis. He
saves a young girl named (Sierra) from sexual assault by throwing a
sleazeball through the window of their bus. No charges are pressed
because the man already had a rape conviction.

Jon attends the funeral of his estranged father. Before his death of a
liver disease, Jon's father had been caring for Jon's grandfather. Both
had been upset with Jon, claiming he'd neglected his heritage and his
obligations. Saying Jon is the last of the line, Jon's grandfather
charges him with the duty of becoming Super-Chief. Per the old man's
request, Jon suffocates his grandfather, releasing him from life, and
takes the meteorite fragment.

Super-Chief joins an effort by Firestorm to found a new Justice League
of America. In its first mission, the "JLA" attempt to settle a
chronal disruption created by the now-villainous robot majordomo of
Booster Gold, Skeets. Skeets kills Super-Chief, and Jon ends up in an
otherworldly location. An elder named Flying Stag, apparently the
original Super-Chief, indicates that Jon is no longer among the living
and repossesses the amulet. Flying Stag admonishes Jon's ignorance of
the price that must be paid for magic. Railing about his failures, Jon
disappears into a vortex of clouds.

Super-Chief's corpse appears as a Black Lantern in the 'Blackest Night'
series.

After the 52 series was over, writer Grant Morrison stated "If there
had been space in the last issue I would have included a coda to the
Super-Chief story. I had plans for Jon Standing Bear's return but we
couldn't fit them in when issue #52 went from 52 pages to 40. I'm sure
he'll turn up somewhere else."


Saganowahna of Wisconsin

[The Super-Chief of Wisconsin agrees to join the Supermen of America.
Art by Jamal Igle from Superman #714 (October 2011).] At the beginning
of Superman #709, a new young Super-Chief is seen thanking Superman
for an assist on capturing runaway supervillains in the Colorado desert.
Superman refers to him as "Saganowahna," and the young man claims that
he gains his powers from a "manitou stone" he wears around his wrist; he
claims that some believe the stone to be Kryptonian in origin, though
Superman is skeptical of the idea. Evidently, the powers have a set time
limit for daily use. The stone later proves to be a fragment of a
Kryptonian sunstone that Superman scattered through time.

Saganowahna wears a uniform consisting of a red jacket with a yellow
symbol on the back, a white shirt, black tights, and red boots. He is a
Native American man who wears a mohawk. It is insinuated that
Saganowahna is a Wisconsin native, because he invites Superman to visit
Green Bay the next time the Metropolis Meteors play against the Green
Bay Packers.

This new Super-Chief later accepts membership in Superman's new team,
the Supermen of America.


Powers and abilities

-   A radioactive meteorite fragment, worn in a necklace, grants
    Super-Chief super-strength, super-speed, and flight for one hour.
-   Prolonged use of the meteor fragment apparently grants its users an
    extended lifespan.
-   The newer Super-Chiefs may have slightly different powers than the
    original, since mention is made of super-senses but not flying. The
    third Super-Chief's powers are specified as "the strength of a
    thousand bears, the speed of a thousand running deer, the keen
    senses of the wolf nation, and the power in his legs to leap higher
    than the tallest trees in the forest."

