SUPERBOY is the name of several fictional characters that have been
published by , most of them youthful incarnations of Superman.
These characters have also been the main characters of four ongoing
Superboy comic book series published by .

The first, and arguably best-known, Superboy was simply Superman as a
boy, acting as a superhero in Smallville, where KAL-EL (Superboy's
Kryptonian name) lives under his secret identity, CLARK KENT. The
character was featured in several series from the 1940s until the 1980s,
with long runs appearing in Adventure Comics and two eponymous series,
Superboy and The New Adventures of Superboy. He developed a mythos
and supporting cast of his own, including foster parents Ma and Pa Kent,
love interest Lana Lang, and time traveling allies the Legion of
Super-Heroes.

When  rewrote much of its continuity in 1986, Superman's
history was changed so that he never took a costumed identity until
adulthood, erasing Superboy from the canonical history of Superman,
although many aspects of the backstory created in Superboy comics, such
as Clark's friendship with Lana Lang, remained. In the last few years,
some additional features of Superboy's history, such as his tenure in
the Legion, have also been reintroduced into the story of Superman's
youth.

The character was adapted into a Superboy television series
(1988–1992), which also spawned another, short-lived Superboy comic
book series; and a teenage Clark Kent, secretly using his powers in
heroic acts, appeared in the highly successful Smallville TV series
(2001–2011), drawing to a great extent on the comic book continuity in
its depiction of young Clark's life.

In 1993,  introduced a new, modernized Superboy, a teenage clone of
both Superman and Lex Luthor, also known by his Kryptonian name KON-EL
and his secret identity as Clark's cousin CONNER KENT. The new Superboy
was featured in his own series, Superboy (volume 3), from 1994 until
2002, and in several series devoted to teenage superhero groups. He was
featured in 's relaunch of Adventure Comics and got his own series
again in November 2010, which ran until August 2011. A revised version
of Kon-El, complete with a new origin, debuted in a new Superboy series
as part of 's New 52 launch in September 2011. This Superboy made his
Smallville debut on Friday, March 4, 2011 in the episode "Scion". In
this episode (as in the comics), Conner is a clone made up of both Lex
Luthor and Clark Kent's DNA, and has several of Superman's powers.
Superboy is also featured in the animated series Young Justice that
ran from 2011 to 2013.

Due to ’ complex Multiverse, several other Superboys have
appeared over time with the most notable, being the mentally unstable
Superboy-Prime, a parallel world version of Kal-El.


Fictional character biographies

Kal-El

[First appearance of Superboy. Art by Joe Shuster from More Fun Comics
#101.] The original pitch for a "Superboy" character was made by Jerry
Siegel (without Joe Shuster) in November 1938. The idea was turned down
by Detective Comics, Inc., and the publisher again rejected a second,
more detailed pitch by Siegel two years later. After the appeal of
kid superheroes had been demonstrated by the success of Robin, the Boy
Wonder and similar characters, Detective Comics reversed itself in late
1944 and started publishing a Superboy feature, in an effort to expand
the Superman franchise by presenting a version of the character to whom
younger readers could easily relate. Superboy first appeared in More
Fun Comics No. 101 (1944, with a 1945 cover date). Though Joe Shuster
supplied the art, the Superboy feature was published without the input
or approval of Jerry Siegel, who was serving in World War II. This fact
increased an already-growing rift between the publisher and Siegel and
Shuster.

Superboy in Adventure Comics

In early 1946, Superboy moved to Adventure Comics, where he debuted in
issue No. 103 (Apr 1946) as the lead feature for the anthology comic,
and he remained the headlining feature for over 200 issues. Stories in
Adventure Comics treat Superboy as essentially a junior version of
Superman. To that end, he wears the Superman costume and his alter ego
Clark Kent wears glasses as a disguise for his civilian identity.
Superboy is the superhero of Clark's hometown of Smallville and grows up
under the guidance of his foster parents, Ma and Pa Kent. Superboy's
adventures in Adventure Comics include the story of how he was
reunited with his pet superdog, Krypto; the story of how his friend,
the teenage scientist Lex Luthor, becomes his most bitter foe; and
how Superboy joins the 30th-century Legion of Super-Heroes.

The popular Legion spun off from Superboy into its own feature, which
debuted in Adventure Comics No. 300 (Sep 1962). The feature soon
dominated the comic and forced out original Superboy features, with the
last new Superboy story appearing in No. 315 (Dec 1963). Superboy
continued to appear in the comic in reprinted stories and as a member of
the Legion until the Legion's final issue, Adventure Comics No. 380
(May 1969).

Superboy (volume 1) (1949–1977)

Four years after his debut, Superboy became only the sixth  superhero
to receive his own comic book when Superboy No. 1 (Mar–Apr 1949) was
published. The series became the first new  superhero title to succeed
since World War II. Superboy saw the debuts of the first Superbaby
story, (about Clark's adventures as a super-powered toddler), and of
Clark's two closest friends: Lana Lang, who also serves as a romantic
interest for Superboy; and Pete Ross, who later discovers and helps
protect Clark's secret identity. Other notable stories to appear in
Superboy include the story of the first Bizarro and the first
appearances of Legion of Super-Heroes members Mon-El and Ultra
Boy.

After the Legion pushed new Superboy stories out of Adventure Comics
in 1963, Superboy became the only comic book to feature original
Superboy stories. Less than two years after the Legion itself left
Adventure Comics, Superboy became the Legion's new home. Starting
with Superboy No. 172 (Mar 1971), the Legion appeared as an occasional
backup feature. Once again, the Legion feature proved so popular that by
Superboy No. 197 (Sep 1973), the Legion had become the lead feature,
and with the next issue, the title's only feature. Although from issue
No. 197, the cover logo read "Superboy starring the Legion of
Super-Heroes" ("and" replaced "starring" with #222), the official title
(shown in the indicia) of the comic remained Superboy until No. 231
(Sep 1977), when the comic became Superboy and the Legion of
Super-Heroes. In issue No. 259 (Jan 1980), Superboy left the Legion and
his name was dropped from the title altogether, which now became simply
The Legion of Super-Heroes. Though Superboy still periodically
appeared in the series that once bore his name, the series remained a
Legion title until its final issue, No. 354, in 1987.

The New Adventures of Superboy (1980–1984)

After the Legion took over Superboy, the Superboy feature was nearly
moribund until the late 1970s, when it appeared in two short runs, first
in Adventure Comics (again) and then in Superman Family. Then, in
the same month Superboy left the Legion in Legion of Super-Heroes No.
259 (Jan 1980), a new series entitled The New Adventures of Superboy
debuted, with the first issue depicting Clark Kent celebrating his
sixteenth birthday. Published monthly, this title lasted for 54 issues
until 1984. Between issues No. 28 (Apr 1982) and No. 49 (Jan 1984), the
series also featured "Dial H for Hero" as a backup.

Several months after the last issue of The New Adventures of Superboy,
a four-issue miniseries was published called Superman: The Secret
Years (1985), which tells the story of how Superboy becomes Superman
during his junior year of college.

Continuity changes

Shortly after the miniseries was published, Superboy's career was
discarded from Superman's continuity after the 1985–1986 limited series
Crisis on Infinite Earths and writer John Byrne's 1986 revamp of
Superman's origin, The Man of Steel. Twenty years later, following
the Infinite Crisis limited series, some elements of Superboy's
history were restored to the story of Superman's youth (see the Infinite
Crisis subsection).

Post-Crisis appearances of Superboy (Kal-El)

The Legion's Superboy

[Superboy from the Pocket Universe.] Following John Byrne's revamp of
Superman, a new version of Superboy was introduced as a means of
patching the Legion of Super-Heroes' continuity, which was undermined by
the removal of Kal-El's Superboy career. This Superboy is said to have
been created by the Time Trapper, one of the Legion's greatest enemies,
when he notices that the great youthful hero they take inspiration from
does not start his career until he is an adult. Wishing to preserve this
history due to his own history's connection to the Legion's past, the
Trapper takes a sliver of time from the ancient universe and uses it to
craft a "pocket universe" in which Earth and Krypton are the only
inhabited planets. Whenever the Legionnaires travel back in time, they
travel to the 20th century of the Pocket Universe, not the main 
Universe. From birth until the Crisis on Infinite Earths, Superboy's
life is similar to the life of the original Superboy. When the
universe-destroying Crisis strikes, Superboy lacks the power to save
his Earth, but the Time Trapper can do so, provided Kal-El helps him
capture the Legion. Superboy reluctantly agrees. After a battle with the
post-Crisis Superman- during which Superman is drastically overpowered
by Superboy's pre-Crisis strength while managing to keep Superboy on his
toes due to his superior experience-, Superboy realizes he can't turn on
his friends and instead helps the Legionnaires defeat the Trapper. Using
a device the Trapper employed to stave off Earth's destruction, Superboy
saves his Earth, but only at the cost of his own life. His dying act is
to return the Legion to their century (and Earth), where he is later
buried. Later editorial mandates that removed Superboy from the
history of the Legion led to a story where the Time Trapper is
apparently erased from history, wiping the Pocket Universe and that
universe's Superboy from existence.

However by that time Pocket Universe itself was required for such things
as the entire Superman in Exile storyline (which introduced the
Eradicator) as well as the Matrix Supergirl. In fact it was later
revealed that very same year that both the Time Trapper and his Pocket
Universe survived Mon-El's attack and that he had been trying to use
Glorith as a way to return to power only to be literally consumed by her
resulting in her stepping into his role. In the Time and Time Again
saga (1991) it is shown that both Superman and the Legion still remember
the Pocket Universe Superboy so the editorial mandate was basically
being ignored within a year.

This version of Superboy was later seen again during the events of Zero
Hour. He was time-displaced in the 30th century where he saw various
incarnations of The Legion of Super Heroes before being displaced again
in present day Smallville where he encountered a still young and
inexperienced modern day clone Superboy(Kon-El). Thinking he was somehow
in his own future he was confused to see another Superboy and fought him
until coming to realize that something bigger was going on. After
talking it out with the modern Superboy the Pocket Universe Superboy
vanished back to his proper time and reality. This Superboy was later
retconned to have been the Earth-One Superboy.

This Superboy was always the Earth - One Superboy, as shown in Legion of
Superheroes #38. The retcon was actually the fact that the Time Trapper
created a Universe that he could manipulate the Legion with having them
time travel to a 20th-century of his design. On that universe it was
shown that the Time Trapper, with the help of Superboy, was holding back
the effects of the Crisis.

This retcon allowed for all passed Legion stories to exist and keep in
line with the connection Superboy had for so many years before Crisis.

Superboy (volume 2) (1989–1991)

From 1989 to 1991,  published a comic series based on the TV
series Superboy (1988–1992) about a college-age Superboy. Originally
entitled Superboy (volume 2) (as shown in the indicia), the cover logo
read Superboy: The Comic Book from #1–10. From issue No. 11, the
series changed its cover title (as the TV show had done) to The
Adventures of Superboy (although the comic book was not officially
renamed under that title until issue #18). as well as displaying a
short-white box next to the title (logo) which read "As Seen on TV".
After 22 regular issues, the series concluded in a one-shot special
published in 1992 that wrapped up adventures and stories from previous
issues and depicted them as having been the daydreams of the young
post-Crisis Clark Kent.

Zero Hour and Hypertime

During the 1994 storyline known as Zero Hour, Kon-El, the modern
Superboy, encounters a version of the original Superboy, who resurfaces
due to temporal disruptions involving Hypertime. This Superboy soon
seemingly vanishes, returning to his own alternate timeline.

During a later trip through Hypertime, Kon-El accidentally discovers
this Superboy while finding himself in that version's reality. During
this visit, Kon-El discovers that this Superboy is a young Clark Kent,
and by this means realizes the Superman of his reality must therefore be
an adult Clark Kent. Sometime after returning to the main 
Universe, Kon-El reveals to Superman that he now knows his secret
identity.

Infinite Crisis

In the aftermath of the events of Infinite Crisis, Alexander Luthor
finds that Earth's history has changed once again and in particular, he
notes that there are several reports of Superman's activities prior to
his first appearance in Metropolis. Later comics have made some of
the changes in the history of Kal-El's youth explicit. A year after
Infinite Crisis, a cinematic Superman retrospective states that young
Kal-El gave rise to "a rarely-glimpsed American myth—the mysterious
Super-Boy." Fourteen-year-old Clark Kent is depicted using his
superpowers to save lives in secret, wearing no costume, only his
everyday clothes, much like the Clark Kent of the Smallville TV
series.

Several concepts and plot points associated with the original Superboy
and Smallville have been reintroduced into post-Infinite Crisis
continuity as part of Superman's earlier years. As a teenager, Clark
assists stranded space traveler Mon-El, whom he first believes to be his
older brother from Krypton, in a story that is similar to Mon-El's first
appearance in Superboy No. 89 (1961). Krypto has been revealed as
a companion to Clark in his youth. Clark also joins the Legion of
Super-Heroes; Superman later recalls that "the Legion used to visit
between school days. We had adventures in the future between
classes." As an adult, Superman still keeps a Legion flight ring and
has statues of the Legion on display in the Fortress of Solitude.

Lex Luthor's adolescence in Smallville, first as Superboy's friend and
then his foe, was one of the elements of Superman's history removed by
the The Man of Steel. Post-Infinite Crisis, a short biography has
established that once again "Lex Luthor spent much of his teenage years
in Smallville", where he meets Lana Lang, Pete Ross, and Clark Kent,
who befriends him. Unlike the Superboy story, Lex does not lose
his hair in a disfiguring lab accident that he blames on Clark. Rather,
when he leaves Smallville "under a cloud of rumor and suspicion", he
still has a full head of hair.

These aspects of Superman's pre-1986 history have been restored, while
many of the changes brought about by The Man of Steel, such as the
survival of Clark's foster parents into his adulthood and his revelation
to Lana about his powers, remain part of his story. Since Infinite
Crisis, while Clark has been depicted as having a youthful (if somewhat
secretive) career as a superhero, he has not been depicted in costume—at
least in his own time. As a member of the futuristic Legion, the teenage
Clark does sport a "Superman" costume, which he apparently begins
wearing during his first adventure with the Legion. The Legion
co-feature in the first issue of the revived Adventure Comics reveals
that when Clark does join the Legion, he is known as Superboy.

The six-issue miniseries Superman: Secret Origin (2009–2010) outlines
Superman's origin as it stands post-Infinite Crisis. The first two
issues of this miniseries address Clark Kent's adolescence in
Smallville. In these two issues, Clark is depicted as donning his
costume for the first time, working in secret (and in costume) as a
superhero in and around Smallville, joining the Legion of Super-Heroes
as Superboy, and finding Krypto when the superdog lands on Earth.
Superboy's further adventures with the Legion are featured in Adventure
Comics #515–520.

Superboy-Prime

[Superboy-Prime's first appearance, in  Presents No. 87
(1985). Art by Eduardo Barreto.] In 1985, during the Crisis on Infinite
Earths crossover event, another Superboy was created. This Superboy
hails from the parallel Earth known as Earth-Prime, where Superman and
the other  superheroes only exist as fictional comic book
characters. Brought over from his dimension by Superman to aid in
the universe-spanning battle at the heart of the Crisis, Superboy helps
the Earth-Two Superman (Kal-L) defeat the Anti-Monitor, the villain who
spawned the Crisis. With their home dimensions destroyed, Superboy,
Superman of Earth-Two, his wife Lois Lane, and Alexander Luthor, Jr. of
Earth-Three journey to a "paradise dimension".

Published two decades later in 's 2006 Infinite Crisis miniseries,
Superboy, Alex, Kal-L and Lois are retroactively revealed to have been
watching the  Universe since they entered this "paradise". Unhappy
with what they have been seeing, they decide to take action, and return
to the post-Crisis  Universe. Feeling that this world's heroes were
inferior, he feels no qualms about committing wanton acts of
destruction, kidnapping, and murder. In the end, Superboy-Prime is
pulled into the core of a red sun by both Superman of Earth-Two and
Superman (Kal-El) of the main  Universe. They crash land on Mogo, the
Green Lantern that is a living planet. Under a red sun, their powers
rapidly vanish. On Mogo, Superboy-Prime beats the Earth-Two Superman to
death before he is defeated by Kal-El. The Green Lantern Corps put
Superboy-Prime in a maximum-security prison on their home world of Oa
and guard him round-the-clock. While incarcerated, he carves the
"S"-symbol into his chest and vows to escape.

One year later, Superboy is released from his prison by the newly formed
Sinestro Corps and joins them, becoming one of their heralds and wearing
a Sinestro Corps uniform beneath his Anti-Monitor inspired armor.
Now calling himself Superman Prime, he becomes involved in the war
between the Sinestro Corps and the Green Lantern Corps and later in
the events of Countdown to Final Crisis. In the Final Crisis: Legion
of Three Worlds miniseries, Prime leads an expanded Legion of
Super-Villains into battle against Superman and versions of the Legion
of Super-Heroes from three parallel Earths in the 31st century.

Superman: Secret Identity

The Superboy-Prime character was the inspiration for Kurt Busiek's
miniseries Superman: Secret Identity, which begins as a story about a
teenage boy, named Clark Kent after the comic book character, who exists
in the "real world" where there are no superheroes and discovers that he
possesses powers similar to Superman's. In the first press reports about
Clark's life-saving super-deeds, the press refers to Clark (whose
identity is unknown) as "Superboy".

Kon-El

[Kon-El. Art by Mike McKone from Teen Titans (vol. 3) No. 7 (March.
2004).] In 1993, during 's Death of Superman story, a new
Superboy was introduced. Unlike previous characters bearing the
name, this Superboy is a clone created to replace the seemingly dead
Superman, rather than simply being an adolescent Clark Kent. His initial
abilities are based on a form of telekinesis (known as "tactile
telekinesis") by which he could fly and simulate Superman's strength and
invulnerability. Nicknamed "the Kid", Superboy is distinguished from
other "Supermen" who appear after the death of Superman by his youth and
brash character. Though he prefers to be called Superman during the
Reign of the Supermen, after Superman returns from the dead the Kid
accepts the name Superboy for himself and begins his own superhero
career. He also learns that he is not a clone of Superman, but rather
genetically engineered from the human DNA of Paul Westfield, director of
the government sector known as Project Cadmus that had created the
Kid.

Superboy (volume 3) (1994–2002)

Superboy then received his own series, the third series from 
simply entitled Superboy. In Superboy No. 1 (Feb 1994), Superboy
settles in Hawaii with his supporting cast, becoming Hawaii's resident
superhero for the next four years, until Superboy No. 48 (Feb 1998).
Starting in Superboy No. 56 (Nov 1998), Superboy returns "home" when
he begins working for Project Cadmus, the same project that created him.
In Superboy No. 59 (Feb 1999), Superman gives him the Kryptonian name
Kon-El and his secret identity is Josh Leslie Kent in effect making him
part of the El family. After leaving Project Cadmus and living on his
own for a brief time in Metropolis, in Superboy No. 100 (Jul 2002),
the final issue of the series, at Superman's suggestion Kon-El goes to
live with Martha and Jonathan Kent in Smallville, where he adopts a
secret identity as their nephew (and Clark's cousin) Conner Kent.

Teen Titans

In the course of his career, Kon-El becomes involved with several teen
superhero groups, notably the Ravers, Young Justice, the Teen Titans,
and the Legion of Super-Heroes, and he was featured in comic series
devoted to these groups. Through his association with them in both Young
Justice and the Teen Titans, Kon-El becomes the best friend of Robin,
the Boy Wonder, a close friend of Impulse (later Kid Flash), and becomes
romantically involved with Wonder Girl.

Sometime before he joins the Teen Titans, Superboy learns that he had
been actually created from the DNA of both Superman and a human. Though
he had believed that human to be Paul Westfield, after he joins the Teen
Titans he learns that the human is actually Superman's archnemesis Lex
Luthor. Moreover, as the clone Superboy was developing, he was
brainwashed so that Luthor could have a sleeper agent among the
superhero community. When Luthor unleashes Kon-El, Superboy comes close
to destroying the Teen Titans, but he manages to free himself from
Luthor's control before any tragedy occurs. Shortly thereafter,
Kon-El sacrifices his life to save Earth in a battle with Superboy-Prime
during the Infinite Crisis. After his death, statues are erected in
his honor in Metropolis and Titans Tower. Though he coerced Superboy
into serving his own purposes, Luthor continues to claim that he views
Kon-El as his son.

In a story published after Kon-El's death, the alternate future Titans
known as the Titans Tomorrow, including an older Conner who was cloned
from the original, come back in time to the present day.

Adventure Comics (volume 2) & Superboy (vol. 4)

During the "Final Crisis: Legion of 3 Worlds" storyline, Brainiac 5
resurrects Conner in the 31st century after arranging for him to spend
1000 years in the Kryptonian regeneration chamber that revived Superman
after his battle with Doomsday and introducing into it a hair from Lex
Luthor. In the aftermath of Legion of 3 Worlds, Conner is back in
the present, living with Martha Kent and Krypto in Smallville.
Superboy starred in his own feature in the revival of Adventure
Comics, which began publication in August 2009 (see Superboy of
Steel/Adventure Comics #1–4,& 6–8). He then moved to his own comic
again, with the new series starting up in late 2010 before being
cancelled in August 2011 at issue 11 and relaunched from issue 1 in
September as part of ' relaunch of it main  Universe
properties.

Superboy (vol. 5)

 relaunched Superboy with issue No. 1 in September 2011 as
part of The New 52. The series involved major changes to the
character, which includes a new origin in which he is cloned from
Superman, Lois Lane, and their son from an alternate future (Jon Lane
Kent). After Kon-El is killed off, from issue #26 the series follows
Jon Lane Kent, posing as Kon-El in the present day.

Jonathan Kent

In 2016, Jonathan Samuel Kent became the new Superboy in .
Unlike Jon Lane Kent, he is the son of pre-Flashpoint Superman and
Lois Lane, who was reintroduced in the  continuity in 's 2015
Convergence event. Jonathan was born in Convergence: Superman #2.
After Convergence he and his parents relocated to the New 52 universe,
where the Kent family lived in secrecy for 9 years. He stars as Superboy
in the upcoming  Rebirth comic book series, Super Sons, with Damian
Wayne as Robin.


Other versions

Several other versions of Superboy originating from different parts of
the Multiverse have also appeared in .

-   Alternate versions of Kal-El:
    -   KARKAN: In a 1972 imaginary story, infant Kal-El lands in Africa
        and, like Tarzan, is found and raised by gorillas. As a teen,
        Karkan is found by an expedition to Africa and brought
        to Metropolis. When he finds that he can't adjust to "civilized"
        life, Karkan returns to the jungle. Karkan also appears in
        the "Hypertension" story arc (1999).
    -   SUPERBOY of Superboy's Legion: In this Elseworlds tale, the
        infant Kal-El is stranded in the Asteroid Belt, and he remains
        there, in stasis, until found in 2987 by R. J. Brande, a
        thousand years after Krypton's destruction. At the age of 14,
        "Kal Brande", also known as Superboy, joins Cosmic Boy and
        Saturn Girl in forming "Superboy's Legion", later known as the
        Legion of Super-Heroes.
    -   In the Superman & Batman: Generations series of stories by
        John Byrne, Superman gets his start as Superboy during
        the 1920s.
-   Alternate versions of Kon-El:
    -   SUPERBOY of the Super Seven: This Elseworlds version of Kon-El
        is one of the "Super Seven", a group of heroes which include
        Superman, Batman, Wonder Woman, Flash, Green Lantern, and a Lex
        Luthor/Metallo hybrid, who help humans fight off "The Horde", an
        alien race that occupies Earth.
    -   BLACK ZERO: a version of Kon-El who was grown to adulthood and
        lived on a world where Superman didn't return from the dead. He
        was the main villain in "Hypertension" and the foe of the
        "Legion of Superboys" (below).
-   Other versions:
    -   Kingdom Come: Superboy appears alongside Supergirl with the
        Legion of Super-Heroes in one panel. It's unclear whether this
        version is Kon-El, simply young Kal-El (via time travel) or
        possibly his son through Lois Lane.
    -   Legion of Superboys: Different versions of Superboy from
        throughout Hypertime, including both Kon-El and Kal-El, team up
        in the unofficial "Legion of Superboys" to fight Black Zero in
        the "Hypertension" story arc. Among these Superboys are a
        version of Kon-El that has taken Robin's place as Batman's
        partner, a Kon-El cowboy, a Kon-El knight, Karkan, Superboy One
        Million, and a teenage clone of Supergirl from the Elseworld's
        Finest: Supergirl & Batgirl reality.
    -   Superboy One Million: The one millionth clone of Kon-El, he
        lives in the 853rd century and is a member of Justice Legions S,
        which consists exclusively of Superboy clones, and T, a future
        version of Young Justice. Also known as Superboy OMAC, an
        acronym for "One Millionth Actual Clone" of Kon-El, this
        Superboy resembles the original OMAC (One-Man Army Corps)
        in appearance. He was part of 1998's  One Million crossover
        event and reappeared the following year in "Hypertension".
    -   QUETZAL: In a distant future on the colony world of Aztlan,
        Quetzal becomes the designated heir to Superman, who occupies a
        semi-divine position in this Aztec-like society. Realizing that
        "Superman" is corrupt, Superboy leads a rebellion against
        him.
    -   Superboy (presumably the original) is one of the "ghosts" in the
        empty "Planet Krypton" restaurant in The Kingdom: Planet
        Krypton #1.

In addition, ' GLADIATOR of the Shi'ar Imperial Guard is
based partly on Superboy. The Shi'ar Imperial Guard, as a whole, was
created as an homage/parody of the Legion of Super-Heroes.

All-Star Superman

During an adventure in Smallville while he is still a youth, Clark Kent
of All-Star Superman is aided by the time-spanning Superman Squad
featuring the present Superman in disguise as the Unknown Superman, Kal
Kent, and the 5th-dimension Superman. While aiding the Squad, Clark
misses a chance to save the life of Jonathan Kent.

In writing about the version of Superman in his series, writer Grant
Morrison said, "Ma & Pa Kent—one dead. We're going with the version
where Pa Kent has died. That's the day Superboy becomes a man."
Dialogue between several characters implies that young Clark is a
costumed adventurer, but he is never referred to as "Superboy".


Legal status

The Superboy character has been the subject of a legal battle between
Time Warner, the owner of , and the estates of Jerry Siegel and
Joe Shuster.

On November 30, 1938, Siegel pitched the idea for the character of
Superboy to Detective Comics (the corporate forerunner to ),
but the company declined the offer. Siegel pitched the idea again in
December 1940, but again the company declined to use the material.
Siegel enlisted in the U.S. Army in July 1943. While he was stationed
overseas, Detective Comics directed Joe Shuster to draw a Superboy comic
strip for publication in More Fun Comics. No notice was given to
Siegel, and no consent from him was granted. Siegel sued for
copyright infringement, and won. A court-appointed special referee
declared the character of Superboy unique, and not derivative from the
character of Superman. But appeals by both Siegel and National Comics
Publication (the new name of Detective Comics) led to a consent decree
in which the parties agreed that Superboy was the sole property of
National Comics.

In 1969, Siegel and Shuster sought to recover their copyright to
Superman, as the original 28-year copyright for the character had
expired. In Siegel v. National Periodical Publications, Inc._, 364 F.
Supp. 1032 (S.D.N.Y. 1973), aff'd, 508 F.2d 909 (2nd Cir. 1974), the
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York held
that the 1948 agreement assigned not only the original 28-year copyright
term but also the 28-year copyright renewal term as well to National
Periodical Publications (Detective Comics' successor).

In 1976, Congress enacted a new Copyright Act. This law extended
existing copyrights for 19 years, but it also gave creators of works the
right to seek to recover their copyright when the extension was up.

The Siegel claims

In 1997, Joanne Siegel (Siegel's surviving wife) and Laura Siegel Larson
(Siegel's daughter) filed a notice exercising their rights to terminate
' copyright on the Superman character. The date of termination
was 1999, but  provided Joanne Siegel with certain benefits
that induced the parties to keep negotiating. A tolling agreement was
signed to allow negotiations to keep moving. The Siegels, Shusters, and
 began drafting an agreement, and this agreement now referenced
the Superboy character and some indicia as well. On October 19, 2001,
Larson's attorney issued a letter in which he claimed that the heirs
"accepted D.C. Comics offer of October 16, 2001 in respect of the
'Superman' and 'Spectre' properties." Further negotiations broke
down in 2002, and the Siegel heirs filed suit in the U.S. District Court
for the Central District of California claiming their half of the
Superboy copyright.

On March 23, 2006, Judge Ronald S.W. Lew of the District Court for the
Central District of California issued a summary judgment ruling that
Siegel's heirs had successfully reclaimed the copyright to the Superboy
character and related indicia as of November 17, 2004. Judge Lew's
decision left the parties in the unenviable situation of the Siegels
owning the copyright to Superboy, but Time Warner owning the
trademark—leaving neither party fully able to take advantage of their
respective properties alone.

At a subsequent trial in October 2006, Time Warner (now the parent
company of ) defended itself against a copyright infringement
suit by the Siegels by arguing that Judge Lew's summary judgment was
incorrect. In Siegel v. Time Warner, 496 F. Supp. 2d 1111 (C.D.Cal.
2007), Judge Stephen G. Larson vacated Judge Lew's summary judgment and
ordered a new trial on the issues. Larson's ruling did not determine
whether Superboy was such a unique character that the character enjoyed
its own copyright protection. He said it was up to future litigation to
determine whether the differences between Superman and Superboy were
trivial and did not create a copyrightable character. Attorney Jesse J.
Kruger, however, noted that character reboots and retcons could create
enough differences so that any future version of Superboy might avoid a
claim by the Siegels.

The legal dispute affected ' treatment of the various
incarnations of Superboy. In the Secret Origin of the Teen Titans
back-up story (March 28, 2007) in the weekly 52 limited series, an
illustration of Superboy was changed into Wonder Girl. In the
Sinestro Corps War storyline in the Green Lantern titles and in the
Countdown to Final Crisis limited series, the Superboy-Prime character
was referred to as Superman-Prime, a development that came about in part
because of the legal dispute.

On March 26, 2008, in Siegel v. Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc._, 542
F. Supp. 2d 1098, 1145 (C.D. Cal. 2008), Judge Larson ruled again that
the Superboy character was not a work for hire. Larson also held that
the 2001 settlement documents did not constitute a contract terminating
the Siegel heirs' claim to the Superman and Superboy works. The Siegels
regained the copyright to the Superman character, story, and indicia as
they appeared in Action Comics #1 (but not prior to or after that).
Judge Larson later expanded his ruling to allow the Siegel heirs to
claim additional plots, Superman characters, costuming, and indicia.
 This included the story of Superman's origin as a Kryptonian
rocketed to Earth from a dying planet in a spaceship created by his
father.  celebrated the decisions, as they restored certain
retconned versions of the Superboy character to the company's use. On
June 28, 2008,  Vice President and Executive Editor Dan DiDio
said in reference to the Legion of Three Worlds comic at the Wizard
World Chicago convention, "We've got Geoff (Johns, writer), we've got
George (Pérez, artist), we've got SuperBOY Prime (yes, we can say that
again)."

In January of 2013, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals returned all
rights over the Superboy character and other indicia to . The
appellate court held in Larson v. Warner Bros. Entertainment, No.
11-56034, D.C. No. 2:04-cv-08400-ODW-RZ (9 Cir. January 10, 2013), that
the District Court for the Central District of California erred when it
said in 2008 that  and the Siegel heirs had not reached an agreement
in 2001 resolving the dispute over the copyright. The court of appeals
remanded the case back to the district court with an order to find that
a contract existed. Copyright attorney Dallas Kratzer said that the
Ninth Circuit's ruling "rendered moot all of the other questions in this
lawsuit." The Hollywood Reporter said the ruling likely precludes any
further attempt by the Siegel heirs to terminate ' copyright
ownership of the character, although an appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court
is not barred. The Ninth Circuit also ruled that  could
move ahead with a tortious interference lawsuit against Siegel attorney
Marc Toberoff, whom  accuses of interfering with the 2001
settlement.

On remand, the District Court for the Central District of California
found that the 2001 agreement had terminated the Siegel heirs' rights to
Superboy. The Siegel heirs appealed, arguing that the 2001 agreement did
not cover the Superboy copyrights because the rights (at that time) were
not the Siegels' to grant. They also argued that the agreement
alienated their copyrights contrary to law. Finally, the heirs
argued that Joanne Siegel had rescinded the 2001 agreement in 2002, an
action in which  had agreed. The Ninth Circuit Court of
Appeals rejected all these arguments.

The Shuster claims

Joe Shuster died in 1992. After his death,  and his sister,
Jean Shuster Peavy, entered into an agreement in which the company paid
Shuster's debts, made "survivor payments" to Shuster's brother (Frank),
and paid Jean $25,000 a year for the rest of her life. Jean Shuster
Peavy and Frank Shuster agreed to turn over all copyright interest in
Shuster's Detective Comics characters to . The agreement also
barred the Shuster family from asserting these rights in the future. The
agreement did not, however, specifically mention Superman or Superboy.

In 2003, the esate of Joe Shuster estate filed suit to recover Shuster's
copyright interest in Superman, Superboy, and other characters. 
Comics counter-sued, arguing the 1992 agreement barred any such claim.
In 2012, the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California
held in  v. Pacific Pictures Corp._, No. CV 10-3633 ODW (RZx),
2012 WL 4936588 (C.D. Cal. Oct. 17, 2012), that the 1992 agreement's
broad, all-inclusive language was more than adequate to cover the
Superman and Superboy copyrights in which Shuster had an interest. Thus,
the estate was barred from seeking their termination under the Copyright
Act. Whatever interest Shuster had in Superboy stayed with .
The U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear the Shuster family's appeal in
October 2014, leaving the district court's ruling intact.


In other media

The Superboy character has made the transition to television on multiple
occasions, both in live action and animated series.

-   The Adventures of Superboy (1961): television series (though only
    a pilot was produced).
-   The Adventures of Superboy (1966–1969): series of 34 six-minute
    Superboy adventures (his first animated appearances) that appeared
    as part of three different programs during that time, packaged with
    similar shorts featuring other  superheroes. He was voiced
    by Bob Hastings.
-   Super Friends: Superboy makes two appearances in the show's run.
    The first one was in "History of Doom" when the Hall of Justice
    computer runs a tape showing Lex Luthor's origin. He was voiced by
    Danny Dark. His next appearance was in the short episode "Return of
    the Phantoms" where three Phantom Zone criminals go back in time to
    fight Superboy. He is saved by the arrival of Superman and Green
    Lantern. He was voiced by Jerry Dexter.
-   Superboy (1988–1992): television series about Superboy
    (Clark Kent) during his college years. The series starred John
    Haymes Newton (1988–1989) and Gerard Christopher (1989–1992), and
    Stacy Haiduk as Lana Lang. The theme music and underscore were
    composed by Kevin Kiner. 100 episodes were produced.
-   The cloned Superboy appears in the video game The Death and Return
    of Superman as a playable character.
-   Smallville (2001–2011): television series starring Tom Welling;
    though not a "Superboy" series by name, this series started with a
    teenage Clark Kent (a freshman in High School) and features many
    elements originally present in the Silver Age Superboy comics.
    Additionally, in a first season episode, Clark accidentally
    transfers his powers to a classmate named Eric Summers, who, before
    running amok with his newfound powers, is called "Superboy" by the
    local newspaper. And in a season 5 episode, Arthur Curry
    sarcastically refers to Clark as "Superboy". In the final season,
    Lucas Grabeel plays Lex Luthor's young clone turns out to have
    Clark's Kryptonian DNA; his hair changes from red to Clark's hair
    color and he ends up being given the name "Conner Kent". At one
    point, he wears the same black T-shirt with red Superman emblem
    Kon-El wears in the comics.
-   A "young Superman" appears in the Legion of Super Heroes animated
    series. The original press releases stated Superboy would
    be featured. Due to the aforementioned legal issues, the "Superboy"
    character was instead referred to on the series as "Superman". This
    version of the character comes from the time shortly before Clark
    leaves Smallville for Metropolis. The second season takes place
    about two years after the first and features both an older Clark and
    a Superman clone from the 41st century named Superman X (usually
    addressed as Kal-el), who has alien DNA and enhanced superpowers, as
    Legion members.
-   Kon-El appears in the Young Justice television series. Conner Kent
    was a clone made by Cadmus in case Superman turned or was ever
    defeated; it was later learned that his DNA is half-human (with Lex
    Luthor as his human father). At the beginning of the series, Conner
    seeks Superman's approval, viewing him as his father. Upon learning
    the identity of his human DNA donor, Luthor gives Conner a tool
    (named Shields) that unleashes his full Kryptonian powers but also
    causes him to go into a nearly blind rage. Superboy, Artemis and
    Miss Martian reveal to the team their connections to various
    villains, who had been using them to set up a trap; in Superboy's
    case, his connection to Lex Luthor. Revealing these secrets allowed
    the Team to foil the basis for the villains' blackmail, however the
    Team subsequently learned from Red Tornado that Vandal Savage had
    managed to take over the Justice League, using Starro tech. As the
    sidekicks fight their mentors and teachers, they subdue them long
    enough to put Robin's anti-virus tech in place, freeing the League
    from Savage's control. Superboy and Superman finally speak, and
    Superboy tells Superman that he chose Conner Kent as his name,
    which Superman (Clark Kent) approves of (even if Conner mistakenly
    believes that he's taken the name of Kent Nelson, the now-deceased
    Doctor Fate). The second season reveals that Superman has come to
    view him as a brother and he has broken up with his girlfriend, Miss
    Martian, as he disapproved of her reckless use of telepathy and her
    attempt to make him forget about a fight they had. Additionally, in
    the episode "Secrets", homage is paid to Kon-El's original
    appearance in the comics, when Mal Duncan wears a Halloween costume
    which is an exact replica of Superboy's costume.
-   Superboy, credited as "Superbaby" is voiced by Grey DeLisle in the
    2013 direct-to-dvd animated film, JLA Adventures: Trapped in Time.


Notes

