LINDA DANVERS, formerly known as SUPERGIRL, is a fictional comic book
superhero appearing in books published by . Created by writer
Peter David and artist Gary Frank, she debuted in Supergirl vol.4 #1
(September 1996). She is not to be confused with Linda Lee Danvers, the
secret identity used by the Kara Zor-El incarnation of Supergirl prior
to the events of 1985's Crisis on Infinite Earths, who was inspired to
use the name for her secret identity by a half-remembered meeting with
Linda Danvers.


Fictional character biography

Matrix

Linda Danvers (daughter of policeman Fred Danvers and his wife Sylvia)
began her life in a less-than-heroic fashion. Lured into a world of
darkness by her boyfriend BUZZ, Linda was involved in many illicit and
illegal activities. Little did she know that she was intended to be a
sacrifice for a demonic cult for which Buzz worked. Buzz slashed her
with a dagger to use her blood to release a demon into the world, but
MATRIX, the protoplasmic Supergirl, intervened. She used her
shape-shifting powers to try plugging the gaping wounds on Linda, but
instead became fused with Linda. Linda and Matrix became a new
Supergirl. Armed with newfound superhuman abilities and the power to
change from Linda Danvers into the taller Supergirl, Linda began to
fight crime and demonic activity, and redeem her darkened soul. She was
hesitant to reveal her situation to her adoptive "brother" Superman,
fearing his reaction to her co-opting a human life, but he accepted the
change. Further complicating the situation was the revelation that
Matrix' sacrifice in attempting to save Linda transformed her and Linda
into the Earth-born Angel of Fire.

Earth-born Angel

When Linda became an Earth-born Angel (one of three, the others are
Blithe and Comet), she developed wings of flame and flame vision. She
discovered that she could teleport in an S-shaped burst of flame. She
used her powers to fight demons and dark gods, and even her fellow
Earth-born Angel Blithe. She met an angelic ally, the equine Comet, who
was revealed to be her friend, Andrea Jones, and the Angel of Love, born
in an accident in an ice cavern. Stranger still, Linda began to
encounter a young boy named Wally, who claimed to be what is known in
the  Universe as the Presence (his name, he explained, was a variation
on "Yahweh", the Hebrew name for Jehovah the almighty God). Wally helped
Linda through her strange transformations, especially when her wings
changed from angelic to bat-like. Linda also found herself fighting a
superhuman named Twilight, whose dark powers were almost strong enough
to overpower Linda's angelic abilities. Her greatest challenge came when
Linda was captured by a strangely Wally-like man, who was the Carnivore,
the first vampire. She defeated him, with the help of an angelic figure,
simply called "Kara". In her defeat of Carnivore, her Matrix side was
ripped away, leaving Linda alone once again.

Search for Matrix

After the split, Linda retained half of the super-strength and
invulnerability she had when fused with Matrix/Supergirl and could only
leap 1/8 of a mile. Using some items from a costume shop, Linda created
a white, blue, and red Supergirl costume (the same costume used by the
animated version of Supergirl in Superman: The Animated Series) and
acted as Supergirl, while searching for Matrix, with the help of her
demonic ex-boyfriend Buzz and fellow superhero Mary . Even with
diminished abilities, she was still powerful enough to stop Bizarro, and
even found herself fighting a Bizarro Supergirl. Linda's search led her
to the Amazon, where Matrix was held prisoner by Lilith, the mother of
all demons, who had sent Twilight after Supergirl, holding Twilight's
sister hostage to keep her under her evil control. Lilith fatally
injured Mary , Twilight, and Linda, but not before Matrix was
freed from Lilith's prison. Linda asked Matrix to merge with Twilight,
and Twilight became the new Angel of Fire in the process, using her
powers to heal Mary and Linda, thus giving Linda all the powers she had
had when she was merged with Matrix. At this point, Matrix passed the
Supergirl mantle on to Linda.

"Many Happy Returns"

Linda was the new Supergirl for only six issues of the 1996 series. With
her powers back to Matrix's original (non-angelic) levels, Linda
encountered a rocketship that contained a young, vibrant Kara Zor-El
from the Pre-Crisis reality. After a rocky start, the two became
close, with Linda mentoring Kara on how to be a hero.

Kara's presence in the Post-Crisis era was going to destabilize time.
The Spectre (Hal Jordan incarnation) appeared and said that Kara was
destined to die. Apparently, a cosmic entity called the Fatalist had
altered the timeline for his own amusement and to vex his master, Xenon,
a being with a pathological hatred of Supergirl. Not surprisingly, the
young Kara Zor-El did not tamely accept that she was destined to die at
a young age, and tearfully begged Linda to find some way to save her.
Linda lied to her, in order to calm her down and send her away; only
after she had departed did Kara Zor-El realize Linda's intent—Linda
secretly took Kara's place, and was sent to the Pre-Crisis era, posing
as Kara and expecting to die in her place, in order to provide Kara
Zor-El with a chance at life. The Pre-Crisis Superman uncovered her
ruse (upon her arrival in his universe, she tried to repeat Kara
Zor-El's origin story, but his superhuman abilities allowed him to
notice details that made it clear she was lying, such as the fact that
her costume was made of Earth materials) and admitted he was in love
with her. The two married and had a daughter, Ariella. Linda even
changed her costume. Linda's very presence had altered the timeline, so
the Spectre made her return home, not only to restore the timestream but
to save Kara from Xenon, who had captured the young Supergirl and
planned to kill her.

Linda defeated Xenon, and had to send frightened young Kara back to her
universe, knowing Kara, as an adult, would eventually die in the Crisis
on Infinite Earths. Linda's daughter was spared from being erased from
the timeline by the Spectre (Linda informed the Spectre if he did not
save Ariella, she would let the universe die), but Linda was heartbroken
over her actions. She learned that her parents had just had a second
child, ironically named "Wally". Linda reunited with her parents for one
last time before leaving everyone and hanging up her cape. She left a
note for Clark and Lois explaining her decision, saying she felt she had
let her loved ones down and so she was no longer worthy of wearing the
S.

According to Peter David, if his run on Supergirl had not ended, he
would have had the series being a sort of Birds of Prey type comic,
featuring the trio of Linda Danvers as Superwoman, Pre-Crisis Kara
Zor-El as the current Supergirl, and Power Girl.

According to an interview with Newsarama, following the events of the
"Infinite Crisis" storyline, editor-in-chief Dan DiDio stated that the
Matrix Supergirl was wiped from existence. However, Infinite Crisis
writer Geoff Johns later stated, "As for this…huh? Linda Danvers hasn't
been retconned out at all."

Reign in Hell

In Reign in Hell #1, July 2008, the team of Shadowpact attacks Linda
Danvers in her Gotham City apartment, which makes Linda fight back. She
manifests the flaming wings she had while merged with Matrix, but still
loses to the collective powers of Blue Devil and Enchantress. However
she is teleported to Hell, as Hell is recalling all of its "debts".

In Reign in Hell #6, Linda reappears in the Doctor Occult backstory.
She appears as a fallen angel summoned by Lilith but mysteriously
released. In Reign in Hell #7, Linda uses her flame vision to kill
some injured demons who were huddled around a tiny campfire, Dr. Occult
is horrified by her willingness to kill innocents. Linda believes that
no one in Hell is innocent, and then accuses Dr. Occult of being a
damned soul. Linda says she does not deserve to be trapped in Hell, and
that she would see everybody burned to char before she accepted being
kept in there. Dr. Occult casts a spell to show Linda who she really is,
and she flies away in horror.


Powers and abilities

ORIGINAL POWERS: Linda was originally a normal human, with no superhuman
abilities. Upon fusing with the Matrix Supergirl, Linda gained her
psychokinetic abilities. This granted her an incredible level of
superhuman strength and speed, near invulnerability to harm, and the
power to fly at high speeds. Linda was also able to produce concussive
blasts of telekinetic energy, typically referred to as "psi blasts."
Linda was also able to change from her normal, Linda Danvers persona
into her "Supergirl" form which was taller, had blonde hair, and a
larger bust. The transformation was purely cosmetic, as Linda retained
her powers in either form.

EARTH-BORN ANGEL POWERS: After being merged with Matrix for some time,
Linda became the Earth-Born Angel of Fire. While she retained her
original abilities, she also gained the ability to produce bursts of
fire from her eyes (called Flame Vision), form angelic wings composed of
flames, and could use her wings to create a flaming portal that allowed
her to "shunt" (teleport) long distances. Though Linda originally lost
her angelic powers after being separated from Matrix, she later seemed
to have regained them during the "Reign in Hell" mini-series.

REDUCED POWERS: After being separated from Matrix, Linda found herself
with reduced powers. She could no longer shapeshift into her "Supergirl"
form, and all of her angelic powers were lost. In addition, Linda's
strength and durability were reduced by half, she lost her ability to
fly and produce psionic blasts, and instead was only able to leap around
1/8th of a mile in a single bound.

RESTORED POWERS: After encountering Twilight as the new Earth-Born Angel
of Fire, Linda regained all of the powers that she'd possessed while
initially merged with Matrix, sans her ability to assume her "Supergirl"
form. Her strength and durability returned to their original levels and
she was able to fly and produce psionic blasts of force once more.


Other versions

-   Supergirl: Wings reworks the Earth-born angel storyline; in it,
    Linda Danvers is a gothic teenager being corrupted by a demon, while
    her guardian angel Matrix believes Linda is beyond hope
    of redemption. The two eventually fuse into an angel that wears a
    Supergirl-inspired costume.
-   In JLA: Created Equal, Linda Danvers, fifteen years after a
    disease wipes all men from the Earth, changes her name from
    Supergirl to Superwoman.
-   In JLA: Act of God, Linda Danvers is one of many heroes who lose
    their powers due to the cosmic event that removes the powers of
    countless metahumans. However, she, along with Martian Manhunter
    (J'onn J'onzz), Aquaman (Arthur Curry), and the Flash (Wally West),
    train with Batman and his associates so they may still be heroes.
    Changing her name to JUSTICE, Linda and the others form the
    Phoenix Group.
-   Peter David's Fallen Angel implied that Lee, the main
    character, might be Linda Danvers. When the title moved to another
    company, her real origin as a guardian angel named Liandra
    was given. However, IDW Publishing's Fallen Angel #14 introduced a
    character known as "Lin". While David could not explicitly state
    that this character is Linda Danvers due to legal concerns, he
    confirmed his intent in an interview.
-   Linda Danvers' Supergirl appeared in the video game Justice League
    Heroes voiced by Tara Strong, which would explain variations of her
    costume and the appearance of her powers.


In other media

-   In Superman: The Animated Series, Kara wears the Linda Danvers
    uniform from the comics.
-   In the Smallville episode "Fracture", an amnesia Kara adopting the
    name "Linda" which is the references of character. In the episode
    "Apocalypse", Clark travel to an alternate universe where Kara was
    raised by the Luthors as Linda Danvers.
-   In the TV series Supergirl, Kara was adopted and raised by the
    Danvers as Kara Danvers.

