SUPERNOVA is an identity used by three characters in the , all related
to the Carter bloodline. The first appearance of this character was in
the weekly  series 52 where the mystery of his true identity
and purpose was one of the recurring themes of the series.


Publication history

52

The character of Supernova first appears during the eighth issue of the
weekly comic series 52. His costume and name are similar in
design—albeit with a different color scheme—to the costume of NOVA, an
"imaginary story" version of Superman who lost his Kryptonian powers and
became a Batman-like crimefighter in a two-part story. This version
of the character also reappeared as one of several alternate versions of
Superman. In Superman/Batman Annual #2, a temporarily powerless
Superman wears a costume with a similar design to the Nova suit, but
calls himself Supernova.

During Week 15, as Booster Gold gets bad promotion and publicity,
Supernova seems to be getting the new good promotion and publicity that
Booster Gold was once having.

This was an intentional design choice on the parts of the writers to
feed into the mystery that was set up in his first appearance - who is
Supernova?_ As the series progressed, the narrative and characters
within the narrative presented a number of choices for the real identity
of Supernova.

During Week 19, Supernova met with Wonder Girl, who thought that he was
Kon-El. Lex Luthor sees footage of this meeting, three weeks later,
during Week 22, and is furious, believing that Supernova is Superman.

The character Ralph Dibny confronts and confirms the identity of
Supernova but this information is not shared with the reader until issue
37 of the series where he is revealed to be Booster Gold. With the
assistance of Rip Hunter, he had faked his death and travelled back in
time to become Supernova as part of a plan to stop Skeets, who was being
controlled by Mister Mind.

The Supernova suit is then employed by DANIEL CARTER, Booster Gold and
Rip Hunter's ancestor in the present. Echoing Booster's origins, Daniel
is a former high school football superstar, who has permanently injured
his knee ending his career. Mister Mind finds him and manipulates him,
eventually trapping him in the timestream before he is rescued by Rip
Hunter, who defeat Mister Mind at the climax of the 52 series. While
Daniel and Booster aware of their relation to each other, however, Rip
Hunter intentionally keeps his family connection to the Carters in the
dark (as he is Booster Gold's future son). Daniel Carter uses the
Supernova suit for a time to start a superhero career of his own, but
also puts it to use for long sprees of playing video games, as the
suit's wearer is frozen in time, and doesn't need to eat, drink, sleep,
or use the restroom.

Booster Gold

Following on from those events, the character is next seen in the
relaunched Booster Gold series that uses many of the same themes as
the 52 series. Rip Hunter and Booster Gold continue their alliance to
try and avoid other dangerous changes to historical events. Booster Gold
agrees to leave Supernova's identity to Daniel, hoping to shape him into
a better person. Daniel fails to make good use of the new suit, however,
and it is stolen by Booster Gold's father, JONAR CARTER who becomes the
third person to use the Supernova costume.

Jonar is shown working with other characters such as the Ultra-Humanite,
Per Degaton, Despero, and the Black Beetle as a group known as "The Time
Stealers". Using time as a weapon for conquest, they attempt to change
history for their benefit. For example, by attempting to kill Jonathan
Kent's great-grandfather, resulting in the Kents never finding Superman.
It is revealed that Jonar is under the control of Mister Mind, forcing
Booster to remove Jon's ear to free him. Jon was last seen unconscious
but alive in the alternate reality. It is unknown if he is still alive
in the regular  Universe.

Parallel to those events, Daniel is left at home, where he meets Rose
Levin, his future wife, who is a blogger/journalist hoping to make her
fortune selling articles and photos of Booster Gold. At first, Rose
not only finds him uneducated, uncultured and basically repellent which
serves to only entice Daniel's attraction further, but is flabbergasted
by the idea that she and Daniel will inevitably marry and become the
future direct ancestors of Booster. Eventually, Daniel and Rose do get
together in a rocky, argumentative, yet committed relationship. Rip
Hunter comes to Daniel and Rose and convinces them to assist him in
stopping an attempt to erase Booster Gold from history. Along the way,
Hunter made a replica of Supernova power suit for Daniel. After
witnessing the unsympathetic and harsh reprimands Rip gives Booster for
his leave of absence, he and Rose agree with Booster to disband the
Time Masters, and try to return to their former lives.

Daniel resolution begins to wane, and he soon returns to his
time-travelling career, albeit for a different kind of selfish reason:
hoping to impress Rose, he time travels during the Dominators Invasion
of Earth, searching for a family heirloom Rose lost escaping from Paris.
During his searches, he meets a Starro-probe, and thinking it harmless,
tries to contain it in a mayonnaise jar, from which it escapes, taking
control of Rip Hunter and the timestream. Booster recruits him again to
undo the damage.

During the Blackest Night event, Ted Kord, reanimated as a Black
Lantern, targets Daniel and Rose in order to lure out Booster. The
Black Lantern Ted Kord would eventually defeated by the combined effort
of Booster Gold, Skeets, Blue Beetle (Jaime Reyes), and Daniel himself
as Supernova.

-   Time Masters: Vanishing Point 1-6


Powers and abilities

Supernova uses the Phantom Zone Projector built into his suit to
teleport matter from one place to another through the Phantom Zone
itself. He has used this ability on several occasions, such as
rescuing bystanders from various disasters, removing a sea creature
terrorizing Metropolis, and removing a surveillance satellite
trained on him from hundreds of miles away. The suit contains a copy
of the white dwarf star size-changing belt used by the Atom, and an
advanced laser system able to melt steel; Rip Hunter claims to have
built it as resistant to all time ravages. The suit is so advanced that
it is able "to freeze time for his wearer". As long as the wearer keeps
the suit on, he/she feels no need to eat or drink, able to exist
indefinitely and without aging. The suit is specifically keyed to
the Carter DNA, requiring any wearer to be related to Booster in order
for the suit's abilities to function.

After the original suit is stolen by Jonar and subsequently damaged, Rip
Hunter presents Daniel with a new suit to help him save Booster Gold
from the Time Stealers. Aside from being darker in color, with the
white elements turned into black ones, is still unknown how and if it's
more advanced than the former white model.

