TALLULAH BLACK is a fictional character, a western comic book antihero
that appears in comic books published by  as a supporting
character of Jonah Hex. The character was created by writers Jimmy
Palmiotti, Justin Gray and artist Phil Noto. Tallulah Black is a tragic
figure and bounty hunter whose face and body were horribly scarred with
cuts and left eye taken out. Despite her history and background,
Tallulah is kind and a decent person who truly cares for people besides
herself. The character was portrayed by Megan Fox in the Jonah Hex
(film) 2010.


Publication history

Tallulah Black first appeared in Jonah Hex, Vol 2 #16 in April 2007
created by writers Jimmy Palmiotti, Justin Gray and artist Phil Noto.


Fictional character biography

When men from the U.S. government (or claiming to be) came to her
family's house, they told them to get out as they were going to steal
the Black family's land for themselves. But Tallulah's family stood
their ground and told them that they didn't want to go.

Not willing to take no for an answer, the men turned violent and killed
the rest of Tallulah's family, raped her and shot her in the left eye,
leaving her for dead. In spite of all that, miraculously she survived
her wounds.

A year later, while she was working as a prostitute in Little City, the
leader of those men recognized her in the brothel she was working at.
Surprised that she lived and escaped him the first time, he slashed up
much of her body.

Tallulah survived again, but her face and body were left heavily
scarred. Seeking revenge, she goes out to find Jonah Hex knowing of his
reputation as a bounty hunter asking for help and telling him her story.
After some initial reluctance at first, Hex teaches her about
marksmanship and how to use a pistol for herself; with her newfound
knowledge and skills, Tallulah goes out with Hex and avenges herself on
the men who slaughtered her family and disfigured her, shooting them all
to death.

After she gets her revenge, she decides to join Hex as a bounty hunter
too herself and eventually Hex's lover. Tallulah eventually became
pregnant by Hex. However the child, a girl, was killed before being
born. (Jonah Hex vol. 2, #50).

New 52

Tallulah Reappeared in the  re-launch the New 52, once again teaming
up with Jonah Hex, appearing in All-Star Western Vol 3 #9 (July,
2012).


Powers and abilities

In her stories with Jonah Hex, Tallulah displays no supernatural or
superhuman powers; however, she does possess some exceptional abilities,
acquired through natural talent and training.

She can sharp shoot with guns, both short range and long range, ride a
horse and take care of herself in a fight.


In other media

Film

In the 2010 film Jonah Hex with Josh Brolin, Tallulah Black was
portrayed by actress Megan Fox. In the film she was different to her
comics counter-part, instead of being a bounty hunter herself, she works
as prostitute going by "Lilah" for short; there was no mention of her
family' and she didn't have the scars or missing left-eye on her body
either. Even though her origin and background were different, she was
still Tallulah Black, and she knew and had a close relationship with
Jonah Hex, becoming his on-again off-again lover whenever he dropped by
the brothel she worked at.

She helps Jonah, when she gets caught up in his quest with the U.S.
government when they find and track down Quentin Turnbull, uncovering
his plot to unleash a terrorist attack on Washington  with a newly
discovered super weapon. After the final battle with Turnball, Jonah
turns down the presidents offer to be sheriff and goes off to continue
as a bounty hunter while Tallulah follows him in their next adventure.

