TASMANIAN DEVIL is a fictional character, a superhero in the 
universe. He is unrelated to the Looney Tunes character, although both
characters are owned by Time Warner. He first appeared in Super
Friends #7. His first canon appearance is Infinity, Inc._ #32
(November 1986).


Fictional character biography

HUGH DAWKINS is a born metahuman with the ability to turn into a
supernaturally large and intelligent Tasmanian Devil, in a fashion
similar to a werewolf. An alternate origin has jokingly been offered,
claiming that Hugh's mother was a were-Tasmanian Devil who raised him in
a Tasmanian Devil cult, which gave him a Tasmanian Devil amulet after
selling his soul to a Tasmanian Devil and injecting him with a
radioactive Tasmanian Devil musk from a race of alien Tasmanian Devils
which gave him his powers. While Hugh is a pacifist, his alter ego of
the Tasmanian Devil is aggressive and bestial. His parents had a hard
time with him until he saved his father's life.

He works as a superhero in Tasmania until he is contacted by a man named
Doctor Mist to join the Global Guardians. He fights alongside the
team and other heroes. In one incident, a teamup with Infinity Inc. goes
bad when Taz is mentally forced to help a murderous villain gain revenge
on a casino. Later, the Guardians' base is destroyed and the team
disbands.

League and Guardians

Dawkins helps to rebuild the Justice League Embassy which had been
destroyed during an alien invasion. His affiliation with the Justice
League causes his rejection by the Queen Bee, ruler of Bialya, who is
reforming the Guardians. Her efforts seem beneficial but are for her
own selfish gain, as she is using brainwashing techniques to put the
Guardians under her control. This affects the Devil again, as his close
friend Tuatara falls into a coma after destroying a neo-Nazi compound
and attacking the League. Tuatara receives care by an Australian medical
facility.

Dawkins and his friend Joshua Barbazon are preparing the Justice League
Australian embassy. Their plans include transferring Tuatara to the
medical lab, as soon as it is completed. The Queen Bee recalls Tuatara
before this happens. Dawkins is infuriated by these circumstances, which
he doesn't fully understand.

Dawkins would be there when Tuatara recovers his true mind. Called up in
a League effort to stop an international incident, Dawkins and many
other League members travel to Bialya. It turns out that Captain
Atom, Elongated Man, Ice and Blue Beetle had been fired by Ambassador
Heimlich, a mole placed into UN power by the Queen Bee. They had
illegally invaded Bialya to investigate.

The backup team enters, with the permission of Queen Bee, just in time
to be caught in a devastating explosion, which destroys an entire city
block. The League and many innocent people are saved by Ice creating a
shield, but so many others are not so lucky. Dawkin's former friends
regain their minds, and the Bee's massive brainwashing efforts are
uncovered. He also learns that Doctor Mist was a robot, Jack O'Lantern
is dead but an impostor, and Owlwoman is missing. It is said that Little
Mermaid is also missing, though both sides in the conflict had seen her
die from a misfired shot by Lantern. Queen Bee, the one that has caused
so much problems is deposed and slain by Sumaan Harjavti, the brother of
the man the Queen had slain and deposed.

Dawkins and the League help with relief and recovery efforts. After
this he would return to Australia, but he rejoins a team of Guardians to
rescue those still endangered by the secret machinations of
Harjavti. The entire group is endangered as those left behind had
been implanted with subliminal orders to kill. Fortunately, nobody is
actually harmed and the Guardians are reformed again. Taz assists
with clean up efforts after Coast City is obliterated.

He rejoins Justice League International after aiding them against the
villain Sonar. He is present for the funeral of fellow Leaguer
Ice. He becomes indirectly involved in another recruitment effort
but it doesn't work out.

It is also revealed that Hugh is openly gay in Justice League
Quarterly #8. He has previously been romantically interested in JLA
liaison Joshua Barbizon, had a crush on Hal Jordan and is dating
Starman, Mikaal Thomas.

Bloodlines

Later, Dawkins works with the Justice League during the Bloodlines
event. He teams up, mainly with Elongated Man and Metamorpho to stop a
group of murderous aliens terrorizing London. The other adult female
team members, Power Girl and Doctor Light, are unavailable to assist due
to previous commitments. The men are not very successful as dozens of
citizens vanish or are killed. The toll, which includes a missing school
bus, deeply affects all three. During one investigation, they are
attacked by the rookie armored hero Lionheart, who mistakes Taz's
unusual form (and the changing forms of his friends) for the eyewitness
reports of the aliens.

The aliens attack the League's headquarters, a (seemingly haunted)
castle. Summoned by the energy flares of their youngest member, Maya,
the group returns and fights the creatures. Lionheart, though his
secondary mission is to discredit the League, sees the nobility in Taz
and the others and helps them chase off the aliens. No pursuit is
possible, as all are injured; Taz himself has been impaled through the
shoulder. Lionheart, before fainting from his injuries, summons medical
help through an emergency Justice League communications channel. Taz
recovers in time to help his JLE teammates and dozens of other heroes
defeat the Bloodlines aliens. The aliens are destroyed in a swamp
outside of Metropolis in America.

Funerals and Risk

Around this time, Dawkins goes on a JLI goodwill tour to New Zealand.
They resist him at first. He and his contact, Raylene Mackenzie, stumble
upon the villain Phobia and Tas literally sniffs out one of her recent
murders. The two get into a back-and-forth fight with the fear-casting
killer. Raylene confronts a fear of drowning, while Tas' hallucination
concerns the abusive treatment his mother heaped upon his father.
Working together, the two defeat Phobia. Tas' efforts to save a New
Zealander endears him to the entire country.

Dawkins later assists the Justice League in battling Overmaster.
There, the team loses Ice. The group falls apart, and Dawkins soon
leaves too, not wanting to stay in a group so small and unestablished.
He does not see the point.

Tas is one of the mourners at the funeral for Maxwell Lord. After
some time missing, he is shown attending the funeral of Sue Dibny, wife
of the Elongated Man.

He joins the Ultramarine Corps and lives for a time on their floating
city of Superbia. When the entire city is conquered by Gorilla Grodd and
his forces, Tas and the other surviving heroes are sent to cause
destruction. His mind and the Corps are rescued by the Justice
League. Soon after, he takes part in the Corps' mission into the
infant universe sometimes known as Nebula Man. Their efforts later allow
the villain to be destroyed.

Tas helps out in the OMAC Crisis. He is one of many superheroes who go
to the Sahara as bait for the legions of meta-human killing machines.
This scheme works, and many OMACs are destroyed without harming the
hosts within.

After the events of Infinite Crisis, Tas is shown at a memorial
service/heaount. During the 52 maxi-series, Tas and other
powered beings, including Gloss and Manticore, face a rage-maddened
Black Adam in Sydney, Australia. They are shown unconscious and buried
in debris.

Later, Tas once again rejoins the Global Guardians.

In Detective Comics #852 (2008), Tas makes a brief appearance fighting
hostile gunmen on the streets of Australia.

Death and return

In the 2009 mini-series Justice League: Cry for Justice, it is
revealed that Tas was skinned, and his pelt was made into a rug by the
villain Prometheus.

In the 2011 Starman/Congorilla one-shot, it is revealed that
Prometheus had his body put into a stasis pod. He was fully healed and
awakened after a citizen of Gorilla City named Malavar placed his
comatose body in a Lazarus Pit. He rises from the Pit just in time to
help Starman, Congorilla, Malavar and Animal Man fight a group of
enemies, and then returns to Australia to tell his mother that he is
still alive.

Following his resurrection, Tas appears as a member of the Justice
League's reserve roster during the battle against Eclipso's shadow
army.


Powers and abilities

Hugh Dawkins can turn into a large Tasmanian devil. In this form, he has
super strength, savage claws, and razor sharp fangs.

