TELLUS is a fictional  superhero and a member of the Legion of
Super-Heroes featured in the 30th century. Tellus was co-created by
writer Paul Levitz and artist Steve Lightle.


Fictional character biography

Tellus, real name GANGLIOS, is a native of the methane-atmosphere planet
HYKRAIUS. All Hykraians are methane-breathers and cannot survive outside
a liquid methane environment without special breathing apparatus (in
Tellus' case, a special helmet). Like all members of his race, Tellus
was both telepathic and telekinetic, and it was his skill with these
powers that helped gain him entry into the Legion Academy and later the
Legion itself. He joined the Legion alongside Polar Boy, Magnetic Kid,
Sensor Girl and Quislet in Legion of Super-Heroes (third series) #14.

He was the second non-humanoid Legionnaire. (Quislet, who joined at the
same time, did not have a body in the normal sense).

Tellus served in the Legion for many years and re-appeared in Legion of
Super-Heroes (fourth series), where it was revealed that Tellus had
joined Dark Circle, a criminal organization that by then had transformed
itself into a quasi-religious organization.

Post-Zero Hour

Tellus did not appear in the Legion reboot after the Zero Hour event,
nor was he in the 2005 reimagining/reboot of the Legion.

Post-Infinite Crisis

The events of the Infinite Crisis limited series have restored a close
analogue of the pre-Crisis on Infinite Earths Legion to continuity, as
seen in "The Lightning Saga" story arc in Justice League of America
and Justice Society of America, and in the "Superman and the Legion of
Super-Heroes" story arc in Action Comics. Tellus is included in their
number.

This version of Tellus first appeared in the Adventure Comics Special
Featuring the Guardian (2008) one-shot as a prisoner of Cadmus. He was
seen briefly in Final Crisis: Legion of 3 Worlds #5 (September 2009),
as multiple versions of the Legion battled Superboy-Prime, the Time
Trapper and the Legion of Super-Villains. In Superman #690 (September
2009), he was seen in the 21st century, urging the Green Lantern known
as Sodam Yat to avoid contact with his fellow Daxamite, Mon-El.

As revealed in Adventure Comics (second series) #8, Tellus was part of
a secret team sent by the late R. J. Brande to the 21st century to save
the future in the Last Stand of New Krypton storyline.

In 2011  rebooted their entire line, including the Legion
(again). It has not been clarified which (if any) of the tales noted
above are still canon. Tellus was a regular character in the New-52
series Legion Lost, which was cancelled after 16 issues. In that series,
he and several Legion comrades were trapped in the twenty-first century.


Powers and abilities

Ganglios has two arms and two stubs which operate as legs but are
insufficient to support his body weight. His tail extends longer than
his body and he has green eye with no pupils as well as horns, no teeth,
scales, no nose and a "third eye" of sorts on his forehead which glows
when he uses his powers. One of Ganglios' main abilities is his
telepathy. He uses it as a means of communication, investigation,
searching, controlling and deciphering. He can even search the mind of
an unconscious foe and reach into the subconscious of other individuals.
This is a natural ability of his race. Although rarely used, Ganglios'
can force his telepathic powers to control lesser minded beings.
Normally he uses this ability to allow himself into other's mind to sift
through their thoughts without resistance. Using telekinesis he can move
his large, heavy body about with no difficulty as well as levitating
himself and others (with more stress per person). This is not the only
way he uses his abilities however. Ganglios can create a telekinetic
shield around himself and others to protect himself from most physical
and energy based attacks.

Ganglios moves about by the use of his Telekinesis, however his normal
function of moving is swimming as he does on his home planet so while
moving through space or on normal human gravity levels he seems to be
swimming through the air.


Weakness

Ganglios cannot breathe normal human levels of oxygen and requires the
production of methane to be pumped into the air in his area in order to
breathe. Without his breathing apparatus he would suffocate.


Equipment

As a member of the Legion of Super-Heroes he is provided a Legion Flight
Ring. It allows him to fly and protects him from the vacuum of space and
other dangerous environments.

