THE CLOCK is a fictional masked crime-fighter character created in 1936,
during the Golden Age of Comic Books. According to the Overstreet Comic
Book Price Guide, he was the first masked hero to appear in American
comic books.


History

Created by cartoonist George Brenner, the Clock first appeared in two
Comics Magazine Company publications: Funny Pages #6 and Funny
Picture Stories #1 both cover-dated November 1936. His first
appearances were in two-page features, with little room for character
development. The Clock's secret identity was eventually disclosed as
Brian O'Brien, a wealthy member of high society.

The Clock may be a “missing link” between pulp and comic-book heroes. A
hypnotist with a secret underground lair, his minimalist costume as a
master of disguise was a three-piece suit and mask. The Clock used a
number of gadgets (including a cane whose head becomes a projectile, and
a diamond stud which fires tear gas), and customarily left a calling
card with a clock face and "The Clock Has Struck".

[Quality Comics' Crack Comics #1 (May 1940)] The character appeared in
Funny Pages #6–11 and other titles from the Comics Magazine Company,
including Detective Picture Stories and Keen Detective Funnies. In
1937 the company was bought by Ultem, which encountered financial
difficulties and sold the Clock (and other characters) to Quality
Comics. Ultem was purchased and renamed Centaur Publications; despite
the sale to Quality, Centaur continued to reprint old Clock stories.

The Clock continued to be written and drawn in new stories by Brenner in
Feature Funnies (later retitled Feature Comics) from #3 (December
1937) through #31 (April 1940). Quality editor Will Eisner may have been
inspired by this run of the Clock to create the Spirit. The Clock
feature was moved to Crack Comics #1 (May 1940).

When Centaur sold the Clock to Quality, he acquired a sidekick. He was
first assisted by Pat "Pug" Brady, a former boxer who looked exactly
like Brian O'Brien; they met when picking each other's pockets in Crack
Comics #1. Pug's disguise was even more minimal; consisting of a
handkerchief worn like a bandanna. In his first story with the Clock,
Pug discovered his secret identity and killed another character who made
the same discovery.

In Crack Comics #21 Pug disappeared without explanation as the Clock,
shot, crawled into a basement to die. A young girl, Butch Buchanan, was
squatting in the basement and nursed him back to health. She became his
"moll", and from issue #22 his costume was similar to that of the
Spirit. The Clock alternated appearances on the cover of Crack Comics
with the Black Condor until #19, continuing as a backup feature of that
title until his final appearance in Crack Comics #35 (Autumn 1944).

After Quality Comics ceased operations in 1956,  acquired the
rights to its characters. It did not renew the copyright for most of its
characters (including the Clock), allowing them to fall into the public
domain, and has not used the Clock apart from a few mentions. In the 
Universe, the Clock was initially said to have been killed in 1944 (the
year of his final appearance). In Starman Vol. 2 #19 the Shade wrote
in his journal, "Brian O'Brien told me the reports of his death were
greatly exaggerated". In Starman #20 O'Brien was said to be active in
Chicago, despite several Golden Age references to his home city as a
seaport.


Other versions

In 1992 Malibu Comics published 20 issues of The Protectors, a
superhero team including several characters from the Centaur line. In
this universe, Brian O'Brien was the first costumed hero. With the
advent of super-powered heroes, he gave up crimefighting and joined the
army. O'Brien rose through the ranks, eventually becoming President of
the United States.

In 2013 Dynamite Entertainment published an eight-issue miniseries,
Masks, with several pulp and comic-book characters fighting the
Justice Party (which has taken over New York State). In issue #7, Brian
O'Brien is described as the shadowy figure behind the Party.

