THORN is a 25-year-old fictional character in , a superhero who
suffers from multiple personalities.


Publication history

The character was created by writer Robert Kanigher and artist Ross
Andru in the 12-page Lois Lane story "Death House Honeymoon" in
Superman's Girl Friend, Lois Lane #105 (Oct. 1970), with her own
series, "Rose and the Thorn", debuting that issue as the title's backup
feature. This was a 1970s update of a Golden Age character of the
same name.

A 2004 Rose & Thorn six issue miniseries was by writer Gail Simone. A
rebooted take on Rose and Thorn will appear in the relaunched National
Comics, written by Tom Taylor and drawn by Neil Googe.


Fictional character biography

Rhosyn "Rose" Forrest is the daughter of Metropolis police officer Phil
Forrest, who was killed by a criminal gang named The 100. When Rose
went to sleep, her Thorn personality would emerge and stalk the streets
as a vigilante, attempting to bring The 100 to justice. When she
succeeds in bringing The 100 to justice, the "Thorn" personality
subsides. Eventually, however, the gang escapes and forms another group,
called The 1000, and her alternate personality resurfaces. She has
since worked with Superman and Booster Gold to try to put these
criminals behind bars. She was briefly under the control of Lord
Satanus.

Thorn has no actual superpowers, but she is highly athletic and learned
martial arts from her father. She is known to carry a pair of combat
daggers, a barbed whip, and a bandolier of tiny, thorn-shaped weapons,
some of which contain explosives, miniature smoke bombs, or blinding
magnesium flares.

In the 1990s, Thorn appeared in a Green Arrow storyline written by
Chuck Dixon. After trying to defeat a Metropolis crime lord, Thorn was
defeated by Eddie Fyers and taken prisoner. After being tied up and
gagged in a supply closet, Thorn returned to her Rose persona and began
to sob, frightened and confused about what was happening. Her sobs were
heard by Green Arrow, who had rescued her earlier. They eventually
teamed up to take down the crime lord after she returned to her Thorn
persona.

When Harley Quinn and Poison Ivy moved to Metropolis, Thorn immediately
attacked them. After a fierce battle, the women left Thorn hanging bound
and gagged from a Superman statue in a local park for all of the
citizens to see. During a later confrontation, Harley and Ivy defeat
Thorn again, this time kidnapping her and keeping her tied up in their
garden. After removing the vines from her mouth, Harley drugs Thorn into
revealing the secrets about her multiple personality. Ivy then tortures
Thorn in order to prove that she's weak, eventually leaving her in the
care of Bizarro while she takes a break. Although, she is later rescued
by Supergirl, who defeats Bizarro and unties Thorn. Supergirl later
reveals that she just happened to stumble into the garden. Thorn and
Supergirl later ambush and capture Ivy and turns her into the police.

A 2004 Rose & Thorn miniseries by Gail Simone provided a slightly
different origin story. In this version, The 100 killed both her
parents, but Rhosyn was now revealed to have, at age 12, fought back and
mutilated their murderer, Mr. Quince, cutting his hand off. She was then
placed into a psychiatric care home, where she constantly flew into
violent outbursts. Rhosyn's multiple personality is a result of
unethical experimental treatments by a psychiatrist named Dr. Chritlow.
The experiments forced her to repress her more violent, base emotions;
these emotions were then given to the buried "Thorn" personality, who
emerged whenever the submissive Rose felt angry or threatened. Her Thorn
personality finally broke out after Rose's roommate Kimmy was burned to
death by another patient. Enraged, Thorn viciously mutilated the
culprit. Once released into the public, Thorn began taking over more
frequently, taking up a role as ultra-violent vigilante in a quest to
take down The 100 and avenge her parents. By the end of the
miniseries, it was hinted she'd killed the head of The 100 while he
was in the hospital.

In the miniseries, Gail Simone gave Rhosyn an uncle and godfather,
Detective Curtis Leland, who was secretly taking bribes from The 100
and had been unable to stop them killing Rhosyn's parents. Wracked with
guilt and determined to protect his goddaughter, he disposed of two 100
grunts that Thorn had dispatched. Curtis was killed while trying to
prevent Quince from killing Rhosyn. In his final moments, he put a
signed confession in his pocket so the police could arrest them.

It was also revealed that Rose and Thorn are not the only two
personalities in Rhosyn's mind. The other two shown have been "Mom," a
caring and maternal figure much like how Rose remembers their mother,
and "Wild Rose", an Irish vigilante even more vicious and punitive than
Thorn.

She encountered the Birds of Prey in the Hero Hunters storyline. As of
Birds of Prey #98, she is employed at Dinah Lance's flower shop,
Sherwood Florist II. Her most recent appearance was in Birds of Prey
#109, where she makes an appearance as one of the heroines called in to
confront and intimidate Spy Smasher.

