TIMOTHY JACKSON "TIM" DRAKE (also known as TIM WAYNE) is a
fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by 
Comics, commonly in association with Batman.

The character was created by Marv Wolfman and Pat Broderick, and first
appeared in Batman #436 (Aug. 1989) as the third character to take on
the ROBIN identity until 2009. Following the events in Batman: Battle
for the Cowl, he has taken up the identity of RED ROBIN. With the
continuity changes after the  relaunch, it had been suggested
in the Teen Titans series that Tim Drake never took up the Robin
mantle officially, but rather was Batman's sidekick under the name Red
Robin; however, this is contradicted by various issues, as well as
stories by Scott Snyder (Batman series) and Peter J. Tomasi (Batman &
Robin series), all of which make references to Tim Drake's time as
Robin.

The character has been featured in various other formats, such as The
New Batman Adventures and Young Justice: Invasion. In 2011, Tim Drake
was ranked 32nd in IGN's Top 100 Comic Book Heroes.


Publication history

Tim Drake was named after Tim Burton, director of the then-upcoming 1989
film, and introduced in 1989's Batman: Year Three and his origin
detailed in Batman: A Lonely Place of Dying, in which he first
introduced himself to Dick Grayson and impressed the former Robin with
his skills. This led to Grayson and later Alfred Pennyworth, Bruce
Wayne's butler, to support Tim's request to be Batman's new partner. Not
wanting to make the same mistake as he did with Jason Todd, Batman had
Tim endure an intensive period of training that was never given to his
predecessors. Eventually Tim proves his capability and becomes Robin.
Batman editor Dennis O'Neil hoped that Grayson's approval of Drake
would ease reader acceptance of him. Evidently, this approach was
successful with the character being so accepted by readers that, after
three successful miniseries, the character had his own 183-issue series
from 1993 through 2009. Mike Mullins on Newsarama has stated:

  Throughout [the entire Robin series], the character of Robin has been
  captured consistently, showing him to step up to greater and greater
  challenges. Robin is a character who shows initiative and is driven to
  do what he views as right. He knows he is living up to a legacy left
  by Dick Grayson and strives to not disappoint Bruce Wayne, Batman. Tim
  is a more natural detective than previous Robins and is talented with
  computers, which allows him to stand in his own unique spotlight.
  Unlike his predecessors, Tim is not the most proficient combatant and
  has had to really work on his fighting technique, taking up the bo
  staff to give him an edge that Batman doesn’t need. Tim almost always
  seeks to analyze a problem and to outthink his opponent but has shown
  the ability to win a fight when necessary.

As Robin, the character has also been featured prominently in the Young
Justice and 2003 Teen Titans series. As of June 2009, he took on the new
identity of Red Robin, starring in yet another series by the same name.


Fictional character biography

Introduction

Tim Drake is the son of Jack Drake and Janet Drake, coming from the same
social class as Bruce Wayne. When he was a young child, he visited
the circus for the first time with his parents. The Drakes asked the
Flying Graysons for a photo together, resulting in a momentary bond
between Tim and Dick Grayson as they met for the first time.

After reaching the age of nine, Drake deduces the identities of Batman
and Robin as Bruce Wayne and Dick Grayson after witnessing a gymnastic
move by Robin that Grayson displayed while performing with the Flying
Graysons. Noting that Batman has grown reckless and violent following
the second Robin (Jason Todd) being murdered by the Joker, Drake decided
to intervene and Batman eventually enlisted him as the third Robin after
the death of his mother and the crippling of his father.

Robin (1989–2009)

[Tim Drake's first Robin costume, designed by Neal Adams. Art by Tom
Grummett and Ray Kryssing.] Before joining Batman as the third Robin,
Tim Drake was given a modern redesign of the Robin costume and sent to
train abroad with numerous masters. When Bruce Wayne retires after
Knightfall, Robin goes solo to defend Gotham. Robin would eventually
go on to co-star with other teenaged superheroes in Young Justice and
Teen Titans. He also made guest appearances in other  books
such as Nightwing and Azrael.

Following the deaths of his father in Identity Crisis (2004), his best
friend Superboy (Kon-El) in Infinite Crisis (2005–2006), and the
presumed death of his girlfriend Stephanie Brown in Batman: War Games
(2004–2005), Drake was relocated to Blüdhaven, the city where Nightwing
fights crime, for a period of time in order to escape the "ghosts" of
Gotham City and to stay close to his stepmother Dana Winters who was
admitted into a Blüdhaven clinic after going into psychological shock
over Jack Drake's murder at the hands of Captain Boomerang.
Drake was then given another redesign of the Robin costume in the colors
of Superboy's costume and was formally adopted by Bruce as his
son.

After Batman's apparent death in Batman R.I.P._ and Final Crisis,
Bruce's biological son Damian Wayne takes up the Robin identity while
Tim, believing that his mentor is still alive, assumes the identity of
Red Robin and leaves Gotham City to go on a worldwide search for
Wayne.

Red Robin (2009–2011)

[Tim Drake-Wayne as Red Robin. Cover of Red Robin #6. Art by Marcus
To.] Red Robin, which was launched in late 2009, depicted Tim Drake's
search to find evidence that Bruce Wayne was still alive after cutting
himself off from the rest of the Bat Family. He was approached by Ra's
al Ghul's assassins who were also interested in finding out what
happened to Batman. At the same time, Tamara "Tam" Fox, Lucius Fox's
daughter, has been sent to find Tim Drake-Wayne to bring him back to
Gotham. Tim goes to Iraq and manages to discover definitive proof that
Bruce was alive and lost in time, but was ambushed by an assassin from
the Council of Spiders. He manages to drive himself and Pru to Tam's
hotel room, and they are promptly abducted by the League of Assassins.
Although initially reluctant, he entered into an alliance with Ra's
before nearly bleeding to death due to their encounter with the Council
of Spiders. He was put in charge of the League of Assassins by Ra's and
used the time to simultaneously plan how to stop the Council of Spiders
and destroy the League of Assassins. After failing to foil all but one
of the Council's assassination attempts, Tim realizes that the Council
will be attacking the League's base, and realizes that he left Tam in
danger at the base. Rushing back to base, he simultaneously manages to
delay the Council of Spiders, blow up the League's base, and escape with
Tam.

After crippling Ra's' League of Assassins, Drake returns to Gotham City
to overthrow Ra's plans to use Hush (surgically altered to resemble
Bruce Wayne) to gain control of the Wayne family resources by becoming
the CEO and controlling shareholder of Wayne Enterprises in accordance
to Bruce's will. Ra's plans to destroy all that Batman held dear, and
begins directing his assassins to target all of the Batman's associates.
Realizing that these attacks are a smokescreen and that the real target
is coercing Hush to sign away Wayne Enterprises, Red Robin decides to
confront Ra's head on. He calls upon all of his friends to protect the
various targets. He distracts Ra's from stopping Lucius Fox from making
Drake the controlling shareholder of Wayne Enterprises. Realizing that
Red Robin has bested him, Ra's commends him, calls him 'detective' and
launches Tim out of the window. Tim is happy that he was able to achieve
victory without any compromises, and is saved from falling by Dick
Grayson (as Batman). Drake has since moved back to Gotham City and
reestablished ties with his family and friends. After Bruce Wayne's
return, Tim begins to aid his plans for expanding their mission globally
with Batman, Inc. Tim is eventually appointed as the head of the
newest incarnation of the Outsiders that now serve as Batman Inc.'s
black-ops wing. Red Robin eventually rejoins the Teen Titans and
takes over leadership from Wonder Girl. He remains as the team's leader
during their climactic battle against Superboy-Prime and the new Legion
of Doom.

Following an adventure with Blackbat where he faces Ra's al Ghul's
sister, Tim stalks and attempts to kill a revived Captain Boomerang
during the Brightest Day. Though Tim ultimately stops himself from
killing Boomerang, he is chastised by Batman for his actions.

The New 52 (2011–present)

[The post-Flashpoint Red Robin outfit. Art by Brett Booth.] As part of
the New 52, Tim Drake (now a pseudonym) is seen in Teen Titans #1
(September 2011) as Red Robin, now sporting a new costume designed by
Brett Booth. According to writer Scott Lobdell, many elements of
Drake's history will remain canon. At the start of the series, Tim
has been in a state of semi-retirement after his falling out with
Batman, and uses his computer skills to fight crime over the internet in
a manner similar to Oracle. He is also shown monitoring various teenaged
superheroes, such as Static, Miss Martian, Solstice and Kid Flash. After
being attacked by agents from the shadowy organization N.O.W.H.E.R.E.,
Tim dons a new Red Robin suit and returns to the world of crime
fighting.
As Red Robin, Tim teams up with the mysterious and belligerent
powerhouse thief known as Wonder Girl and the hyperactive speedster
calling himself Kid Flash to stand a chance against his many enemies.
This Teen Titans roster seems to have no ties to the previous Titans.

Teen Titans #0 revealed Tim Drake's new origin, showing a large
departure from his original origin, removing his connections to Dick
Grayson's origin story. In the New 52, Tim is a talented athlete and
computer genius who comes close to discovering the Batman's identity but
never totally figures it out. When Tim finds the Batman and gets
rejected for the role of sidekick, he decides to bring the Batman to
him, by hacking the Penguin's bank account and donating millions of
dollars. The Penguin's goons come after Tim and his family, but the
Batman saves them. Tim's parents go into witness protection, but they
believe Tim deserves better and ask Bruce to take care of him for them.
Bruce adopts Tim, the Witness Protection Program renames him 'Tim
Drake,' and he takes on the identity of 'Red Robin', rather than the
identity of "Robin", out of respect to Jason Todd, but this contradicts
several established issues where he is mentioned as having been Robin.

In recent issues he is shown to be a founding member of the Teen Titans
as well as their leader. He shows feelings for Wonder Girl.

Tim was unwilling to meet with rest of the Bat-Family at the Batcave
after he was infected with the Joker's new compound "HA". He was present
when Damian was killed by The Heretic and admitted to Bruce that even
though he had a dysfunctional relationship with Damian that he did
grieve for him. He was also at the final battle between Batman and The
Heretic when Talia killed her son's clone and blew up Wayne Tower.

Tim was also part of the Bat-Family's assembled team which went to
Apokolips to retrieve Damian's body. As their mission focused on
retrieving Robin, Tim, Jason and Barbara wore costumes which resembled
Damian's colours and each wore a Robin symbol. Following the completion
of their mission and the revival of Damian he handed him the Robin
symbol on his suit to welcome Damian back to life and to the role of
Robin.


Skills and abilities

Combat skills

Tim Drake has been trained by Batman and other instructors across the
world, including Lady Shiva. He has knowledge in several martial arts
such as ninjutsu, karate, judo, jujutsu, aikido, Wing Chun, Shaolin Kung
Fu, Brazilian jiu-jitsu, and Jeet Kune Do. His favorite combat defense
is bojutsu (taught in ninjutsu), and he has beaten Lady Shiva in
sparring and is classed the best staff fighter who ever lived. Tim was
able to fend off several notorious assassins from the Council of Spiders
at once while protecting Tam Fox and also in the end game of his plan to
destroy several League of Assassins bases; earning commendation from
Ra's al Ghul himself who was watching the fight from afar. His
combat style is a reflection of everything he learned from the masters,
Bruce, and his own incredible intelligence deducing weak points in
opponents and targeting them with a variety of combat tactics. He is
also inoculated against several toxins the Bat-family has encountered,
including Joker Venom, Fear Toxin, and some of Poison Ivy's pheromones.

Intellectual, deductive, and leadership skills

At the age of about nine years old, Tim Drake was able to deduce Robin's
secret identity as Dick Grayson when Robin performed a quadruple
somersault, in which Grayson was only one of the three people who could
perform such a flip. This deduction also allowed Drake to deduce that
Grayson's guardian Bruce Wayne was Batman. Drake's intellect has
allowed him to deduce a majority of other heroes' identities including
Flash and Superman. In addition, after foiling Ra's al Ghul's master
plan to assassinate everyone Bruce Wayne cared about and ruining the
Wayne Family fortune, Ra's has addressed Tim as "Detective", a title the
villain once only reserved for Bruce Wayne. His intellect has
enabled him to excel in computer science and a grasp of assorted
scientific techniques, including biology, engineering, and genetics,
which he has been shown to use in his attempts at re-cloning
Superboy. Tim also speaks several languages beyond his native
English, including Cantonese, Russian, Spanish and
German.

Drake, like Dick Grayson, has served as leader to the Teen Titans, as
well as Young Justice, and was even placed in charge of the rescue
efforts of Blüdhaven by Superman, following the attack made by
Deathstroke and his fellow villains.


Costumes

Tim Drake's original costume was different from that of his predecessors
to give him a measure of increased protection, which included an armored
tunic, a cape colored black on the outside and yellow on the inside, and
green leggings. Other details include an armored gorget, jika-tabi style
boots, an emergency "R" shuriken on his chest in addition to the
traditional batarangs, and a collapsible bo staff as the character's
primary weapon. Following Infinite Crisis, his costume was modified to
favor a black and red color scheme and included long sleeves.

The Red Robin costume consists of a long-sleeved red tunic, along with
black boots, tights, gloves, cape and cowl. It also includes a
black-and-gold utility belt that carries Drake's weaponry such as his bo
staff and throwing discs. After Drake's confrontation with Ra's al Ghul
in Red Robin #12, the costume was slightly altered.

After the 2011 relaunch, the full cowl is replaced with a mask that
covers his eyes, similar to his two Robin costume designs. The rest of
the costume has also been altered considerably, as it is now a single
piece black and red costume, adorned with assorted belts on his waist
and legs. His chest harness meanwhile is attached to a set of rocket
powered wings, designed by Virgil Hawkins a.k.a. Static, that allow Red
Robin the ability of flight. He continues to use his bo-staff, and
assorted other gadgets.


Alternate versions

Batman Beyond

Set after the events of Batman Beyond: Return of the Joker, Tim Drake
serves as a supporting character in the ongoing Batman Beyond comic
book series. It is suggested that, after a series of examinations, he is
freed from the Joker's control, although the experience has left him
with doubts and remain struggling to keep his sanity intact. His wife is
revealed to have been aware of her husband's heroic and tortured past,
and implied to have met Tim and his former mentor at some point before
he retires as Robin.

Bruce has offered Tim a job in his company, which he accepted, after he
merged it with Lucius Fox Jr.'s company Foxteca and renamed the company
Wayne Incorporated, on the condition that Tim will not get himself
involved with the superheroic activities Bruce, Terry or the JLU and
Bruce would pay for his children's college tuition.

Injustice: Gods Among Us

In this reality based off the video game of the same name, Tim Drake was
a new member of the Teen Titans as Red Robin at the time the Joker's
nuclear explosion went off in Metropolis. The Titans tracked down
Superboy to the Fortress of Solitude where he attempted to stop
Superman. Tim tries lifting the Phantom Zone projector, but can't
because Superman placed a safety cap that weighs a hundred tons. When
Superboy is mortally wounded, Tim and the other Titans are sent by
Superman to the Phantom Zone.

The New 52: Futures End and Batman Beyond

[An older Tim Drake as Batman on the cover of Batman Beyond vol. 6 #1
(June 2015). Art by Bernard Chang.] In the Futures End series, an
older Tim Drake takes the role of BATMAN after Terry McGinnis dies. In
2015 Drake stars in the new Batman Beyond series. In the series, Tim
Drake faked his death during the war between Earth Prime and Earth-2 and
became a bar owner by the name of Cal Corcoran. He assisted Terry
McGinnis who had come back through time to prevent the creation of
Brother Eye. After Terry was killed in action defending Drake from a
Brother Eye assassin called "Batman/Joker Hybrid" (a merging of Batman
and Joker from Terry's timeline) he passed on his futuristic Batsuit to
Tim and in his dying wish asked him to become the new Batman and go back
through time to prevent the war between Prime Earth and Earth 2, which
believed will prevent the creation of Brother Eye.

He successfully travels back through time 5 years using time band and
convinces Brother Eye to not send a beacon to attract the surviving
hero's of Earth-2 thus preventing the war with Earth 2. Following the
completion of his mission Brother Eye sends Tim back to Terry's timeline
hoping to find Terry alive so he can return the Batsuit to him. However
what he finds is still same future Terry came from realizing that
Terrifitech is a constant and Brother Eye cannot be defeated in the past
Tim declares that Brother Eye hasn't won yet.

A few days later Tim stops a break in at a Wayne-Powers facility by
Jokers who attempt to steal a critical component that keeps Brother Eye
from detecting Gotham City. He later meets up with Terry's brother Matt
who is angry at Tim for wearing his brother's costume and in private
declares that he should have been the one who succeed Terry as Batman.

Following the meeting Tim heads outside Gotham City to an interment camp
that holding all people captured by Brother Eye. Before he can break
into the facility he is attacked by a Brother Eye converted Superman who
attempts to kill him. Knowing he can't kill Superman A.L.F.R.E.D
overloads the Batsuits power reserves, temporally injuring Superman. As
a result, the Batsuit deactivates itself leaving Tim in his civilian
attire and defenseless against Brother Eye's army. He is then captured
and placed in a detention center where he meets Terry's friend Max
Gibson and to his surprise Barbara Gordon.


In other media

Television

-   The Tim Drake incarnation of Robin appears as a main character in
    Young Justice: Invasion, voiced by Cameron Bowen. He is introduced
    in the episode "Happy New Year" as the third version of Robin. In
    the episode "Satisfaction", he is seen observing Jason
    Todd's memorial. In this series, his Robin costume is similar to his
    'One Year Later' costume with some modern influences. Like in the
    comics, he uses a bo staff in combat. Tim is shown as initially
    hesitant to take on leadership roles, something he feels is somewhat
    forced on him by Nightwing. Despite this, the two are shown to have
    a brotherly connection to one another. This familial relationship
    also extends to the more experienced Batgirl. Like Dick in season
    one, Tim is forbidden from revealing his secret identity to the team
    (wearing concealing sunglasses when out of costume). It appears by
    the finale that everyone has become aware of his identity. He shares
    a brief moment of interaction with Stephanie Brown during the
    episode "Before the Dawn". In the finale "Endgame", it is shown that
    he is in a relationship with Wonder Girl after Kid Flash's death
    gave Cassie the courage to kiss him. Due to the large cast of this
    show, Tim's role was mainly as a background character and was only
    highlighted on certain occasions. His detective skills were
    imperative in helping the Blue Beetle overcome control by the Reach.
-   The Tim Drake version of Robin appears in Teen Titans Go!_, voiced
    by Scott Menville. In the episode "The Best Robin", he is one of the
    four members of Team Robin.

 Animated Universe

[Tim Drake as Robin in The New Batman Adventures.] Tim Drake makes his
animated debut as the second incarnation of Robin in the AU after Dick
Grayson.

-   In The New Batman Adventures, he is a central character with his
    characterization slightly blended with Jason Todd's as he assists
    Batman and Batgirl against Two-Face in "Sins of the Father",
    helps Batman in fighting the Joker in "Holiday Knights", almost a
    victim of Mr. Freeze's monotone revenge in "Cold Comfort", prevents
    Batman from murdering the Scarecrow in "Never Fear", almost killed
    Clayface for Annie in "Growing Pains", assists Batman with a problem
    involving Etrigan the Demon in "The Demon Within", almost was a
    victim in Barbara Gordon's nightmare in "Over The Edge", assist
    Batman and Batgirl against Farmer Brown in "Critters", bonded with
    Nightwing in "Animal Act" and "Old Wounds", helps to foil Poison
    Ivy's scheme in "Chemistry" and assists Batman in tracking the
    Creeper in "Beware The Creeper".
-   Robin also made guest appearances on other AU productions, teaming
    up with Superman on Superman: The Animated Series and Static
    on Static Shock, has a supporting role in stopping
    Batwoman's vengeance-fueled rampage in the 2003 animated film
    Batman: Mystery of the Batwoman, and makes cameo appearances in
    the Justice League animated series.
-   In the 2000 animated film Batman Beyond: Return of the Joker,
    Robin is kidnapped and tortured by the Joker to force Batman's
    secrets out of the boy to the point of insanity. As the demented
    "Joker Jr.", he kills the Joker and then suffers a complete nervous
    breakdown, leading to Bat-family's break and retirement. After being
    helped back to sanity, he is not allowed to resume his Robin role,
    and eventually becomes a communications engineer with a wife
    and children. During the future, the 53-year-old Tim Drake
    transformed into the Joker's new form via stolen genetics technology
    containing the villain's mind, memories and DNA. He is finally free
    when the Joker's genetic chip gets finally destroyed by the new
    Batman (Terry McGinnis).
-   Tim Drake was voiced by Mathew Valencia (as Robin in The New Batman
    Adventures and Superman: The Animated Series), by Eli Marienthal
    and Shane Sweet (as Robin for Static Shock), and by Dean Stockwell
    (as Tim Drake's adult form seen in Batman Beyond: Return of the
    Joker).

Film

-   Elements of Tim Drake's character were integrated into original
    character John Blake of The Dark Knight Rises. Like Tim, John
    deduces Batman's secret identity.
-   The Tim Drake version of Red Robin makes his animated debut in
    Batman Unlimited: Animal Instincts and Batman Unlimited: Monster
    Mayhem, voiced by Yuri Lowenthal. This version does not remove
    his mask. In the first movie, he is only ever called "Red Robin"
    once in the entire movie and as "Robin" every other time but is
    constantly referred as "Red Robin" during the sequel. However,
    Alfred Pennyworth does once refer to him as "Tim", confirming this
    version of Red Robin is Drake.

Video games

[Tim Drake in Batman: Arkham City as Red Robin (left), Robin (middle),
Dick Grayson's design (right).]

-   The Tim Drake incarnation of Robin appears in Batman: Dark
    Tomorrow, voiced by Jonathan Roumie.
-   The Tim Drake incarnation of Robin appears in Batman: Rise of Sin
    Tzu, voiced by Scott Menville.
-   The Tim Drake incarnation of Robin appears in  Universe Online,
    voiced by Wil Wheaton. He will appear in both the Hero and Villain
    quest storyline, siding with the player if he or she has chosen a
    Hero or attacking if the player has chosen a Villain. He is also the
    basic Legends PVP character granted for free to Hero players as
    a starter. Both during the main missions and as a playable character
    in short pvp matches, he uses his signature bojutsu style. Tim can
    also be found at one of the police stations that serves as
    safehouses for Heroes, and in the Watchtower, selling a PVP armor
    set called Raptor Infiltrator based on his looked.
-   The Tim Drake incarnation of Robin appears as a playable character
    in Young Justice: Legacy, voiced again by Cameron Bowen.
-   In Injustice: Gods Among Us, Tim Drake's name is listed on a hit
    list during Deathstroke's outro and Red Robin is on an unplayable
    card in the game's iOS version.
-   The Tim Drake incarnation of Robin appears in Infinite Crisis,
    voiced again by Cameron Bowen.

Lego series

-   The Tim Drake incarnation of Robin appears in Lego Batman: The
    Videogame, with vocals provided by James Arnold Taylor.
-   The Tim Drake incarnation of Robin is a playable character in Lego
    Batman 2:  Superheroes, voiced by Charlie Schlatter. Red Robin
    also appears in the game's Nintendo DS version.
-   The Tim Drake incarnation of Robin appears as a playable character
    in Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham, again voiced by
    Charlie Schlatter. He serves as one of the main story characters.

Arkham series

[Robin in a promotional image for Batman: Arkham Knight.] The Tim
Drake incarnation of Robin appears in the Batman: Arkham series, where
he is voiced by Troy Baker and Matthew Mercer.

-   In Batman: Arkham City, he is a playable character in all of the
    challenge maps as well as appearing in the story. The game's
    producers describe this version of the character as grittier and
    darker, to fit the tone of the series. While his costume has been
    radically redesigned, it incorporates the traditional red and
    yellow colors. The first screenshot released of Robin shows a more
    muscled appearance with a short buzz-cut. The character's
    alternate skins include his Red Robin costume and a skin based on
    Dick Grayson's Batman: The Animated Series Robin costume. He
    appears briefly in the game's story, intervening during a
    confrontation between Batman and members of the League of Assassins.
    Following this, Batman gives Robin a sample of the Dark Knight's
    poisoned blood to get to a hospital for analysis and tells Robin to
    keep watch over Gotham whilst his mentor deals with events in
    Arkham City. Robin is the main playable character in the "Harley
    Quinn's Revenge" DLC chapter, where he must enter the Arkham City
    Steel Mill to rescue Batman having gone missing two days previously
    and been captured by Harley Quinn seeking revenge following the
    events of Arkham City. Robin also appears in Batman: Arkham City
    Lockdown.
-   Two of Tim Drake's Robin outfits from the comics are available as
    skins for Dick Grayson as Robin in the multiplayer component in
    Batman: Arkham Origins. Upon reaching a certain level, it's
    possible to play as the character himself with his Red Robin outfit
    and his exclusive outfit from Batman: Arkham City.
-   In Batman: Arkham Knight, Robin retains his hood which is always
    puts down, and a slight redesign to his armor. He tries to help
    Batman look after those who have been infected with the Joker toxin,
    with the last being Batman himself. In order to protect Tim, Bruce
    locks him up in a cell, but Tim is later kidnapped by the Scarecrow
    with Commissioner Gordon, forcing Batman to give himself up and
    reveal his own identity to the world. The Scarecrow shoots Tim but
    he survives. In the 100% completion ending, Tim is engaged to
    Barbara Gordon and texts Gordon to "Not forget the ring", implying
    that Gordon was about to attend Tim and Barbara's wedding and that
    he is the best man. Robin also appears as a supporting and playable
    role in A Matter of Family (set before the events of Batman:
    Arkham Asylum) which chronicles Batgirl's adventure to rescue
    Commissioner Gordon and several GCPD officers from the Joker and
    Harley Quinn, teaming up with Robin during the adventure. Tim also
    appears in another DLC content "The Flip of a Coin", where he takes
    on Two-Face and his gang. He is supported in the mission as backup
    by his now wife Barbara and decide to not return to their honeymoon
    after defeating Two-Face and decided to continue protecting Gotham
    City even with Batman gone for good.


Collected editions

In 1993, a few years after his debut as Robin,  launched a monthly
solo series featuring Tim Drake's adventures as Robin, with Batman
appearing as a supporting character. The series ended in February 2009
with issue #183 following the events of Batman: RIP and Final
Crisis. Starting in August 2009, Drake starred in a new series, Red
Robin. He has also starred in some miniseries and one-shots. This
material has been collected as follows:

  Year   Title                               Material collected                                               ISBN
  ------ ----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------- ------
  2015   Robin Vol. 1: Reborn              Robin Vol. 1 #1-5, Robin Vol. 2 #1-4 and Batman #455-457   
  1993   Robin: Tragedy & Triumph          Detective Comics #618–621; Robin II #1–4                     SC:
  1998   Robin: A Hero Reborn              Batman #455–457, Robin (1991 miniseries) #1–5                SC:
  2000   Robin: Flying Solo                Robin Vol. 4 #1-6; Showcase '94 #5–6                         SC:
  2004   Robin: Unmasked!_                  Robin Vol. 4 #121-125                                          SC:
  2005   Robin/Batgirl: Fresh Blood        Robin Vol. 4 #132–133; Batgirl #58–59                        SC:
  2006   Robin: To Kill a Bird             Robin Vol. 4 #134–139                                          SC:
  2006   Robin: Days of Fire and Madness   Robin Vol. 4 #140–145                                          SC:
  2007   Robin: Wanted                     Robin Vol. 4 #148–153                                          SC:
  2007   Robin: Teenage Wasteland          Robin Vol. 4 #154–162                                          SC:
  2008   Robin: The Big Leagues            Robin Vol. 4 #163–167                                          SC:
  2008   Robin: Violent Tendencies         Robin Vol. 4 #170–174; Robin/Spoiler Special #1              SC:
  2009   Robin: Search for a Hero          Robin Vol. 4 #175–183                                          SC:
  2010   Red Robin: The Grail              Red Robin #1-5                                                 SC:
  2010   Red Robin: Collision              Red Robin #6–12, Batgirl Vol. 3 #8                           SC:
  2011   Red Robin: Hit List               Red Robin #13–17                                               SC:
  2012   Red Robin: 7 Days of Death        Red Robin #18-21 & #23-26 and Teen Titans Vol. 3 #92         SC:


Other collected editions

-   Batman: Knightfall Vol. 2: Knightquest New Edition (Robin Vol.
    4 #7)
-   Batman: Knightfall Vol. 3: KnightsEnd New Edition (Robin Vol. 4
    #8-9 and 11-13)
-   Batman: Prodigal (Robin Vol. 4 #11-13)
-   Batman: Contagion (Robin Vol. 4 #27-28)
-   Batman: Legacy (Robin Vol. 4 #32-33)
-   Batman: Cataclysm (Robin Vol. 4 #53)
-   Batman: No Man's Land (Modern Edition) Vol. 2 (Robin Vol. 4 #67)
-   Batman: No Man's Land (Modern Edition) Vol. 3 (Robin Vol.
    4 #68-72)
-   Batman: No Man's Land (Modern Edition) Vol.4 (Robin #Vol. 4 #73)
-   Batman: New Gotham Vol. 2: Officer Down (Robin Vol. 4 #86)
-   Bruce Wayne: Murderer?_ (Robin Vol. 4 #98-99)
-   Batman: War Drums (Robin Vol. 4 #126-128)-Stephanie Brown
-   Batman: War Games Book 1 (Robin Vol. 4 #129)
-   Batman: War Games Book 2 (Robin Vol. 4 #130)
-   Batman: War Games Book 3 (Robin Vol. 4 #131)
-   Teen Titans Vol. 5: Life and Death (Robin Vol. 4 #146-147)
-   Batman: The Resurrection of Ra's al Ghul (Robin Vol. 4 #168-169 &
    Annual Vol. 4 #7)
-   Batman: Gotham Shall Be Judged (Red Robin #22)

