TOMAR-RE is a fictional  character, and a member of the Green
Lantern Corps.


Publication history

Tomar-Re debuted in Green Lantern #6 in a story written by John Broome
with art by Gil Kane.


Fictional character biography

Tomar-Re was a Xudarian, a race of aliens from the planet Xudar in
Sector 2813 (in his first Pre-Crisis appearance he claimed it was Sector
9). He was a scientist on his homeworld before joining the Green Lantern
Corps and becoming the Green Lantern of Sector 2813. Tomar-Re became a
pivotal member of the Corps, training new members, like Arisia, and
serving in the Honor Guard. He investigated reports of abuses of power
by Sinestro on Korugar. He was close friends with Abin Sur, Green
Lantern of neighboring sector 2814. He was also the first Lantern to
meet Sur's replacement, Hal Jordan, and the two got along equally well.
Pre-Crisis they first met when Tomar contacted Green Lantern about a
threat to a world in his sector, which was happening at the same time
alien invaders were attacking Tomar's world. Hal stopped the threat,
then helped Tomar defeat the invaders, who hastily left the world. Hal
first found out about the Guardians from Tomar, who mentioned they
wanted the Green Lanterns to be equal which is why the Power Battery
recharges their rings for the same time period. In the Post-Crisis
timeline, that friendship is deepened further in that the rookie Jordan
met him soon after being recruited. Jordan was brought to him by his
power ring to help with his difficulties with handling the weapon and
Tomar-Re not only guided the Terran to GLC headquarters for the optional
training program, but also provided valuable emotional support during
this difficult time.

Tomar's most famous mission while serving in the Corps dealt with the
planet Krypton. Krypton, a planet in sector 2813, was growing
increasingly unstable. It was due to explode, caused by internal
pressures deep inside the planet's core. Tomar-Re sought to use a rare
compound called stellarium to absorb some of the tectonic pressure, thus
saving the Kryptonians. He gathered the compound, and was en route to
Krypton when a yellow solar flare blinded him, and forced him to drop
the stellarium. He quickly recovered, but discovered he was blind. He
gathered what little stellarium he could without his sight, and
proceeded towards Krypton. He was closing in when his vision started to
clear. The first thing he saw upon his sight returning was Krypton
exploding. The Guardians recovered Tomar and brought him back to Oa,
where he healed and rested.

He grew to be an honored senior member of the Corps, but his later
career was not without cost. The most difficult moment was during the
Nekron crisis when the death god used the spirit of Tomar-Re's deceased
father to attempt to sway the Lantern to surrender. Although tempted,
Tomar kept to his oath and destroyed his father's spirit to continue the
battle, much to his personal anguish.

Tomar was retired when the Anti-Monitor sought to conquer the
multiverse. He still served alongside the Corps, including John Stewart,
who had become the GL for 2814. The war against the Anti-Monitor would
be Tomar's final fight, as he was killed by the villain known as
Goldface. This was part of a larger confrontation against the Weaponers
of Qward. Before his death, Tomar-Re selected Stewart to be his
replacement, thus forcing John's ring to go to Jordan, who had resigned
from the Corps, and returning him to the organization. Years later,
his son, Tomar-Tu, would follow his father's footsteps as a Green
Lantern himself after getting his own ring.

Blackest Night and Beyond

In the Blackest Night event, all of the fallen Green Lanterns in the
Oan crypt were reanimated by black power rings. Tomar-Re is among the
many Black Lanterns shown standing against the Green Lanterns on Oa.

After the events of the War of the Green Lanterns, Hal Jordan and
Sinestro are trapped in the Dead Zone by the Guardians of the Universe
(who have become unemotional), until they encounter a mysterious figure
lurking in the zone observing them. This mysterious stranger says he
was Hal's friend and Sinestro's enemy, and states that they are both
dead. The mysterious stranger is revealed to be Tomar-Re (who was
undead), asking Hal and Sinestro to stop Volthoom (The First Lantern),
before he goes about bringing changes to reality in history. Hal and
Sinestro are then confronted by the dead members in the Dead Zone.
When Hal questions how Tomar-Re knew this, he explains that those beings
who had died gathered information in the Dead Zone. Later, they are
approached by Green Lantern Simon Baz who was transported by Black Hand
to the Dead Zone and pulled him back after he split his ring which
Sinestro claimed and unintentionally went with him, leaving Hal trapped
in the Zone. Tomar views that Sinestro will not take Volthoom down
easily. After Tomar unsuccessfully tries to persuade Hal from killing
himself in order to gain a Black Lantern ring and escape the Dead Zone
to stop Volthoom, he is pleasantly surprised when Hal's plan manages to
succeed.


Other versions

Smallville Season Eleven

In the comic book continuation of the television series Smallville,_ it
is revealed that Tomar-Re attempted to stop the global civil war led by
General Zod which cost him his life. His ring was inactive for years
since his death, until it chose Clark Kent months after he became
Superman.

Injustice: Gods Among Us

Tomar-Re appears in Injustice: Gods Among Us comic, patrolling his
home planet of Xundar when he receives a message from his ring to return
to Oa. Tomar-Re returns to Oa, and is one of the many Lanterns who chase
and restrain Hal Jordan after the human's failed attempt to return to
Earth. Tomar-Re then accompanies Kilowog along with a small group of
Green Lanterns to Earth to apprehend Superman for trial. Tomar arrives
on Earth along with Kilowog and the other Green Lanterns of his team in
chapter nine, confronting Superman immediately. Before any of them can
attack the Man of Steel, Tomar and the Lanterns are caught in a beam
fired by Cyborg from the Watchtower. Tomar easily survived the beam
thanks to his ring and gave the order, "Take them!" to his fellow Green
Lanterns to battle with Hawkgirl and Shazam, with Tomar teaming up with
Arisia to personally engage with Shazam. At some point, the Green
Lanterns defeated the two, with Tomar having disarmed Hawkgirl of her
mace. Before the Lanterns could take the three to Oa, Sinestro appeared
and murdered Ch'p to the shock and horror of all present. In chapter
eleven, Tomar is once more engaged in a battle with Hawkgirl, who had
recovered her mace, and Tomar is on the defensive with Procanon Kaa
quickly coming to his aide. Soon Tomar finds himself along with the rest
of his fellow Green Lanterns surrounded by the newly arrived Sinestro
Corps. In chapter twelve, Tomar surrenders his ring and allows himself
to be taken as a prisoner of war on Earth alongside the rest of his
fellow Lanterns on Kilowog's orders, sparing himself from death at the
hands of the Sinestro Corps. Tomar's final fate is not known.


In other media

[Tomar-Re as he appeared in Green Lantern.]

Television

-   Tomar-Re makes a cameo appearance in the Justice League two-part
    episode "In Blackest Night".

-   Tomar-Re appears in the Justice League Unlimited episode
    "The Return".

-   Tomar-Re appears in the Duck Dodgers episode "The Green Loontern".
    He is the first Green Lantern to be seen captured. He is voiced by
    Joe Alaskey, who was uncredited for the role.

-   Although Tomar-Re does not appear in the Legion of Super Heroes
    animated series, natives of his homeworld Xudar as well as Barrio
    III do appear.

-   Tomar-Re is briefly seen in the episode "Ring Toss" of The Batman,
    voiced by Miguel Ferrer. Hal Jordan plays a recording for Batman in
    which Tomar relays the information about Sinestro's escape
    from prison.

-   Tomar-Re is seen as part of the Green Lantern Corps in Batman: The
    Brave and the Bold episode "The Eyes of Despero". His home planet
    of Xudar also appears (listed in the captions as "Exudar"), and is
    taken over by Despero.

-   Tomar-Re appears as a recurring character in Green Lantern: The
    Animated Series, voiced by Jeff Bennett.

Film

Live Action

-   Geoffrey Rush voices Tomar-Re in the film, Green Lantern directed
    by Martin Campbell. As in the comics, he is the first fellow
    Green Lantern that Hal Jordan meets upon recruitment and it proves a
    pleasant encounter as the soft-spoken veteran provides Hal with an
    orientation tour of Oa and the Corps. He appears unmasked as his
    identity needs no protection in Oa, and his appearance is very
    similar to the comics, in which he seems to exhibit both avian and
    fish traits in morphology, although he tells Hal in the film that
    the DNA of his race is similar to that of the ichthyologic species
    on Hal's planet. Furthermore, when Jordan is rendered unconscious
    upon defeating Parallax, Tomar joins with Sinestro and Kilowog in
    rescuing Hal, keeping him from falling into the Sun.

Animation

-   John Larroquette voices Tomar-Re in Green Lantern: First Flight.
    He first appears alongside fellow Lanterns Bodikka, Kilowag,
    and Sinestro. In contrast to the comics, where he and Hal get along
    quickly, he immediately attacks Hal due to misunderstanding and
    treats him with hostility. During the course of events he is
    betrayed by Sinestro, who kills him using his newly obtained
    yellow ring.

-   Tomar-Re appears in Green Lantern: Emerald Knights voiced by James
    Arnold Taylor.

