The TOYMAN is the name of three fictional comic book supervillains and
one adolescent superhero in the  universe. They mostly appear
in Superman stories. The first Toyman appeared in Action Comics #64
(September 1943), and he is an enemy of Superman. His real name is
WINSLOW SCHOTT.

The Toyman uses toy-based or toy-themed devices and gimmicks in his
various crimes. The Toyman's weapons, while sometimes comical, are also
very dangerous. The Toyman's creations include devices such as
life-sized wind-up tanks, acid-spraying water pistols, and toy soldiers
that carry real guns. The Toyman usually dresses in a flamboyant
costume. The Toyman made frequent appearances in the Golden Age comics,
but has appeared infrequently in Superman stories since then.


Fictional character biography

Winslow Schott

[The Toyman vs. Superman, from the cover of Action Comics #64. Art by
Joe Shuster.|left|thumb]

The Toyman first appeared in 1944 and appeared in several Golden Age
Superman stories. Schott appeared less frequently in comics published
after the early 1950s, but remained a semi-regular foe during the '60s,
'70s, and '80s.

While at first more of a nuisance, Toyman gradually grew more
emotionally unstable and paranoid over time, his toys following suit by
becoming a lot more dangerous. Although Winslow Schott in his civilian
persona was a rather sweet, humble, quirky (if socially withdrawn)
person, as Toyman he turned into a childish, destructive megalomaniac.
During the '70s Winslow was effectively retired from crime, but he kept
contact with Superman and even helped out to take down Jack Nimball,
which he felt sullied the Toyman legacy.

This retirement proved to be tragically short, as not long after Winslow
put some of his toys on display, (a suggestion by Superman) the entire
museum exhibition is completely wrecked. Sightings report this to be the
work of a man in blue tights flying at great speeds. Thinking he's been
played for a fool by Superman, Schott swears to destroy everything
Superman cares about to avenge his life's work. Eventually it's revealed
that the real culprit was Bizarro, in search for the duplicator ray, but
by then it was already too late: Schott had already returned to his
Toyman ways, murdered Jack Nimball and a hotel door guard in cold blood,
and built a giant robot to terrorize the city. Shortly after his defeat,
he regains his sanity and remembers what he has done. He sheds tears of
regret as he is escorted to the police car.

After that incident Winslow's mental state grew even worse, and while he
often made several legitimate attempts to atone for his sins, he would
often relapse back into madness.

After 1985's miniseries Crisis on Infinite Earths and John Byrne's
Man of Steel miniseries, the Toyman's history was revised, and the
post-Crisis version of the character first appeared in Superman
(vol. 2) #13 (January 1988). In this version, Winslow Schott is an
unemployed British toymaker who blames Lex Luthor and his company,
LexCorp, for being fired from the toy company he is working for. He uses
his toymaking talents to seek revenge, which eventually causes him to
cross paths with the British hero Godiva, and subsequently, Superman
himself. The Toyman continues to commit various crimes in Metropolis,
including engaging in child abduction.

The Toyman later became a much more sinister figure, shaving his head,
wearing black and getting advice in his head from "Mother". This was
prompted by him being told that a range of Superman action figures would
not include him as he is not "edgy" enough. While this seems to begin as
a pose of what he thought people expect of a villain, it rapidly became
a genuine psychotic break. While in this state he abducts and later
murdered Adam Morgan, the son of Daily Planet reporter Cat Grant. Adam
and several other children captured by Toyman tried to escape, but
Schott found out and stabbed Adam to death for being the leader of the
group. This caused Schott to develop a hatred of children, as he blamed
them for not appreciating his toys. At the time, Schott shows no remorse
for what he had done. When Cat Grant later confronts him in prison he
cruelly tells her "You were a bad mommy. I'm glad I killed your son."

The Toyman later seemingly recovered, and Superman showed him that
children did appreciate old-fashioned toys, arranging parole in an
orphanage; it was later revealed, however, that this was all a
hallucination caused when Zatanna attempts to cure him and he had, in
fact, returned to child abduction. He appeared after JLA: Crisis of
Conscience where Zatanna reveals she mind-wiped him. She and Superman go
after him. Zatanna is bound and gagged by him, but freed by Superman,
however he escapes.

Winslow was seen in Lex Luthor: Man of Steel as well as in the
Infinite Crisis: Villains United special, preparing for the Blackgate
Prison break by lacing the dinner stew with Venom and Velocity 9 to
increase the prisoners' strength, speed, and aggression. Unfortunately,
some guards also ate the drugged stew and fought the superheroes who
showed up to stop the criminals.

He was later seen as a member of the Injustice League in the Justice
League of America Wedding Special.

Toyman's history was later revised in Action Comics #865, by Geoff
Johns and Jesus Merino. Winslow Schott tells Jimmy Olsen that he was a
toymaker who lived with his wife Mary. When a businessman offered to buy
his shop to expand the number of children his toys can reach, he
refused. When Mary is killed in a car accident a few weeks later, Schott
agrees to the purchase. However, the businessman lied and gave his
technologically advanced toy plans to arms manufacturers. Schott
proceeds to bomb the business with an explosive teddy bear. A twist at
the end of the story reveals that Mary was just one of his first robotic
creations.

Following his first confrontation with Superman, Schott met the
Prankster for the first time. The Prankster is a cruel, callous man who
commits crimes "because it's fun". He repeatedly asked Schott to "team
up", but Schott refused.

Schott reveals to Jimmy that the Toyman who killed Adam Grant was a
robot created by Schott to replace him in the event that he was ever
incarcerated and that a glitch in the robot's programming resulted in it
developing a personality, (and later a hatred of children), and that
Schott's repeated attempts to contact the robot resulted in it suffering
from delusions of "Mother". This was confirmed in Superman Secret Files
2009, although Jimmy initially expressed doubt that Schott was telling
the truth.

In the 1997 Speed Force Special, the Max Mercury story Child's Play,
set in 19th century New York, featured the Schott Toy Company run by
Archimedes Schott, a crooked businessman who resembles Winslow. Any
relationship between them is unknown.

In the Supergirl series, while in Arkham Asylum, Toyman is visited by
Cat Grant (whose son Adam was murdered) and Supergirl. Cat interrogates
him about children who have been kidnapped with dolls left behind.
Toyman claims he is innocent and the robotic dolls attack him. Supergirl
saves him and gets him to medical care. When Cat return home, she is
confronted by a villain called the Dollmaker. He stated to be ANTON
SCHOTT implying that he is somehow related to Toyman. Dollmaker
eventually reveals himself to be the abandoned son of Winslow, who has
been kidnapping children and using macabre experiments in order to turn
them into slaves. He tells Cat that he wants her to become his new
mother, and that he wishes to serve as a replacement for her murdered
son, but Cat violently rejects him. With her gag temporarily removed,
Cat is able to call Supergirl for help, and the two are able to defeat
Dollmaker and free the children he had enslaved.

Alternate appearances

The Toyman appears as part of the new Legion of Doom in Alex Ross'
miniseries Justice. Toyman is only seen in person in the first and
last issues of the series, he communicates through a human-sized
marionette resembling the Jack Nimball version of Toyman. The Marionette
uses a black-and-yellow color scheme, never speaks, and has several
strings connected to its joints that give it the appearance of being
operated from above. He attacks Hawkman and Hawkgirl in their museum
using toy fighter planes and a gigantic Nimball Marionette, blowing up
their museum and leaving the duo for dead, though they survive the
attack. Toyman's city is shown to resemble a fun house and is mainly
populated by children and families. When the Justice League storm the
Hall of Doom, the Marionette attacks the League as a whole instead of
any particular target, but is nonetheless destroyed in the attack. After
the attack the toys in his city come to life and attack the Justice
League. Superman eventually finds Schott, now morbidly obese and
infected with Brainiac's cybernetics. Superman realizes that Toyman had
taken all the children in his city hostage and, with a band of Justice
Leaguers, managed to save all of the children before any harm could come
to them. Schott was seen recovering in a hospital bed on a screen in the
Batcave.

Jack Nimball

In the 1970s, a man named JACK NIMBALL assumes the identity of the
second Toyman during a period in which Schott retires from his criminal
career and first appeared in Action Comics #432 (February 1974).
Nimball wore a jester costume and used a similar modus operandi to the
original Toyman. However, this version of Toyman proved short-lived.
Schott killed Nimball with a mechanical toy bird and resumed his crime
career in Superman #305 (November 1976). This Toyman's only other
appearances were in Action #454 and Superman #299.

Nimball appears as one of Schott's androids in Action Comics #865.

The version of the Toyman who appears in Challenge of the Super
Friends was based on Nimball.

In 2011 Mattel released a  Universe Classics 6" Toyman figure based on
the Jack Nimball version of the character. On the back the character
though is labeled as Winslow Percival Schott.

Hiro Okamura

HIRO OKAMURA is a teenage mechanical genius from Japan first appearing
as Toyman in Superman (vol. 2) #177 (February 2002) by Jeph Loeb, and
Ed McGuinness. He shows up in Metropolis in a giant Super Robot fighting
Metallo, claiming the cyborg's equally-giant body was based on material
stolen from his grandfather.

He later becomes an ally to Superman and Batman. In the
Superman/Batman series, he aids the two in destroying a kryptonite
meteor that threatens the Earth. He strikes a deal with Batman to
provide him with various technological implements (Superman/Batman
#7). Okamura uses more technologically advanced devices than the
traditionally-constructed contrivances Schott uses and his work is
largely whimsical in nature. Many of his inventions are inspired by
anime and manga, including giant mecha (notably his giant Composite
Batman-Superman robot).

Okamura appears only a few times in the Superman/Batman comic book,
and his activities are limited to Japan. Winslow Schott remains active
as the Toyman in the United States. In the Sam Loeb-penned memorial
issue Superman/Batman #26, Okamura fakes his own kidnapping at the
hands of Schott, forcing Superboy and Robin to search through his
complex to save his life. Realizing his loneliness, Superboy and Robin
extend their friendship to the boy. Okamura joins Robin and the other
Teen Titans at Titans Tower for Superboy's funeral, clutching a Superboy
action figure.

In Superman/Batman #45, he offers to assist the duo in their quest to
rid the world of Kryptonite, using spider-like nanobots to collect
Kryptonite molecules in the air. His offer becomes a necessity as Lana
Lang, in a last-ditch effort to get rid of Kryptonians and keep LexCorp
afloat, turns a set of Kryptonite caches into "dirty bombs", which
irradiate the entire planet. Hiro comes to the rescue, settling for a
Power Girl-bot to "date". Instead, he gets his dream date, a dinner in
Paris with the real Karen, and the status of honorary member of the
Justice League.

A future version of Hiro, allied with a power-hungry group of Titans,
travels back in time to modern day to cement their power-base in Teen
Titans #52 (Jan. 2008).

Hiro appears as one of Winslow Schott's androids in Action Comics
#865; given the unreliable nature of Schott's narration, Hiro's status
as his android creation is suspect.

In The New 52 (a reboot of the  universe), Hiro Okamura
operates as the TOYMASTER. He and his friend Agnes have
reverse-engineered the works of Silas Stone and Professor Emil Hamilton
to create a massive multiplayer online game that puts the players with
Batman and Superman in real life. When it comes to Toymaster's latest
game, Jimmy Olsen is one of the players that will partake in the game
that will involve the killing of Batman. When Batman and Superman track
down Toymaster, he warns Batman of their weakness of being beaten down
in real life while also stating that his game has somehow began to
manifest in real life. Before Batman can destroy the console in order to
end the game, Toymaster's building is then attacked by Mongul who plans
to make Toymaster's game real for him.

Toyman Robot

Toyman surfaces in Metropolis and allies with Lex Luthor in Action
Comics #837 (May 2006) as part of the One Year Later 'Up,Up, and Away'
story arc. His first appearance was written by Geoff Johns and Kurt
Busiek with art by Pete Woods.

His appearance, inspired by the character's Superman: The Animated
Series incarnation, is that of a child-sized doll. This Toyman mentions
meeting Hiro Okamura in Japan and stealing one of his Superman robots.
As part of his bargain with Luthor, he is given the information needed
to find his creator Winslow Schott in exchange for assistance in a plot
against Superman.

This Toyman, renamed TOYBOY, is shown amongst Schott's other robots in
Action Comics #865, and appears as Toyboy alongside Schott in the
2009-2010 World's Finest limited series.

On the cover of Justice League of America (vol. 2) #13, it shows this
android Toyman as a member of the Injustice League.


Other versions

Toyman appears in a 2013 Smallville Season Eleven comic. At LexCorp
R&D, Superman and Lex are all forced friendly-like as Lex analyzes the
teleportation vest used by a some criminals in a hostage situation and
admits the technology is his, but that it was stolen during a series of
robberies made on Lexcorp and other companies, one of which was foiled
way back by the Green Arrow and Superman.

Lex surmises that whoever created these teleportation vests using all
that stolen technology would have to be very familiar with Lexcorp's
patents and proprietary coding. This leads Superman to Stryker's Island
prison and Winslow who is still incarcerated and seemingly not a
suspect, according to Warden Draper, since he has been under constant
supervision in "hyper-solitary". Lois Lane arrives at Stryker's Island
to question Toyman about Prankster. Toyman reveals that Prankster is
just a pathetic imitation of him; they worked together in the Queen
Industries Research and Development Department before Toyman started
working for Lex. Winslow then asks Lois if Lex asked about him since his
return, which leads Lois to retort that Toyman must rank pretty low
since his memory has been removed. Toyman reveals that Oswald has no
sense of gamesmanship and would cheat whenever he can and had stolen his
idea for kryptonite bullets. It is later revealed Schott modified
Corben's kryptonite heart, giving Corben the power to absorb the
kryptonite radiation once Schott has reinstall it.


In other media

Television

Animation

-   The Toyman first appears in animated form in The New Adventures of
    Superman animated series from 1966. This particular Toyman is the
    son of the original Winslow Schott version.
-   The Toyman is a recurring villain on the Challenge of the Super
    Friends television cartoon voiced by Frank Welker. He appears as
    one of the members of Lex Luthor's Legion of Doom. The Toyman in the
    Super Friends series bears the likeness of Jack Nimball (as he is
    named in the comics).
    -   The Toyman was supposed to appear in the episode "The Case of
        the Dreadful Dolls" during Super Friends: The Legendary Super
        Powers Show as the villain, but was off-limits and replaced by
        an exclusive villain known as the Dollmaker (not to be confused
        with the Batman villain of the same moniker). However the
        Dollmaker's lair is located in Schott's Toymaking Factory.

[Toyman as he appears throughout the  animated universe.]

-   The Toyman appears in the 1990s series Superman: The Animated
    Series voiced by Bud Cort. He is an insane man who wears an
    ever-smiling mask similar to a doll's head, which he is never
    seen without. His arsenal of weapons includes a giant superball that
    can smash concrete and an "inescapable" bubble-blower. In this
    version, Winslow Schott, Jr. is the son of a kindly toymaker, who
    spent all day in his father's shop watching him make toys. Winslow
    Schott, Sr. dreamed of building a toy factory, but lack of capital
    prevented it. Infamous Metropolis mob boss Bruno Mannheim offered to
    bankroll Schott to build the toy factory, but unbeknownst to Schott,
    Mannheim used it as a front for a numbers racket. When the police
    uncovered the scheme, the gangsters fled, leaving the elder Schott
    to be framed for running the operation and falsely imprisoned for
    ten years for embezzlement. Schott eventually died in prison before
    he could be paroled, and Winslow was left on his own and spent
    several years in abusive and neglectful foster homes. By the time he
    reached adulthood, Winslow was mentally ill. Making use of his
    natural aptitude for mechanics, he decided to make up for his ruined
    childhood by terrorizing the world and stealing money to amass his
    own personal fortune. Toyman appears in two episodes: "Fun and
    Games" and "Obsession". His plans revolve around Darci, a lifelike
    android created to be his companion, but he also seeks revenge
    against Bruno Mannheim, the criminal who wronged his father, and
    against Superman for foiling his schemes. Several scenes from "Fun
    and Games" were used in the title sequence of all three seasons of
    Superman: The Animated Series._
    -   This Toyman also appears in Static Shock episode "Toys in the
        Hood" again voiced by Bud Cort. Toyman (who is revealed to have
        survived the events of "Obsession" after his helicopter
        is destroyed) orders Darci to capture Static's friend Daisy so
        she can serve as a model for Darci's nanite-constructed
        new body. After Superman and Static confront Toyman, Darci
        betrays Toyman and tries to escape, only to discover that Toyman
        had implanted a fail-safe device programmed to have the nanites
        destroy her if she turns on him. Darci's body melts, and Toyman
        is taken to jail.
    -   In the Justice League episode "Hereafter", Toyman (voiced by
        Corey Burton) is a member of the Superman Revenge Squad. During
        their attack on the city of Metropolis, he uses an experimental
        machine (which resembles a giant toy robot) that can fire blasts
        of energy from its "chest". Toyman first targets innocent
        bystanders before trying to blast Superman. Toyman then fires a
        blast at Batman and the injured Wonder Woman. To save his
        friends, Superman flies straight into the blast and is sent
        30,000 years into the future. Everyone, including Toyman
        himself, believes that Superman had been vaporized. Batman was
        the only one not to believe Superman was dead as he deduced that
        there would be remains. It was later revealed that Superman had
        been sent to the future but came back thanks to a time machine
        invented by Vandal Savage (who reformed in the future).
    -   In Justice League Unlimited, Toyman is a member of Grodd's new
        Secret Society. He is prominently featured in the episode
        "Alive!", in which he becomes the pilot of the Secret
        Society's spaceship. When a riot erupts and divides the villains
        into two factions, he holds his own and defeats Killer Frost
        with a headbutt, cracking his mask on the side, and a few tricks
        with a heavily rigged yo-yo. In the following Justice League
        Unlimited episode "Destroyer", the series finale, Toyman is
        briefly shown firing what appear to resemble Nerf darts at
        Darkseid's parademons. What makes these darts deadly is that
        they cause the Parademons to explode shortly after impact. He is
        one of a handful of Secret Society villains to survive the
        series finale. Bud Cort reprises him here.
-   The Toyman briefly appears in the season five episode of The
    Batman entitled "Lost Heroes" Pt. 1 voiced by Richard Green. Batman
    muses that a psychiatrist could make a whole career out of Toyman,
    though Superman warns not to underestimate him. He faces off against
    Batman and Superman with his toys and high-tech punching gloves. He
    ends up knocked out by some bombs. He should not be confused with
    TOYMAKER, another character created specifically for the show and
    who shares his toy-based M.O.
-   The Toyman appears in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold episode
    "Battle of the Superheroes!" voiced by John DiMaggio. He causes a
    robbery until he ends up running afoul of Superman and Batman. Due
    to the Red Kryptonite gifts that had been unknowingly given to Lois
    Lane and Jimmy Olsen by Lex Luthor, Superman ends up going rogue and
    nearly kills Toyman only for Batman to save Toyman and hand him over
    to the police.
-   The Toyman appears in the Young Justice episode "Intervention"
    voiced by Cameron Bowen. He goes on a rampage in a giant Toy-Soldier
    to rob a Metropolis only for him to be defeated by Blue Beetle.

Live Action

-   Elements of Toyman were featured in Lois & Clark: The New
    Adventures of Superman:
    -   A character named Winslow P. Schott appears in the Christmas
        episode "Seasons Greedings" played by Sherman Hemsley. With a
        similar background to the post-Crisis Schott in the comics, he
        creates a toy that causes kids to become greedy and adults to
        act like children. Unlike past versions, he shows a genuine love
        for kids and turns over a new leaf toward the end of the episode
        after trying to save a child from a horse while also being saved
        by Superman. He is referred to only once as being "a toyman" in
        passing onscreen.
    -   A later episode features a child-like character named Toyman
        (played by Grant Shaud) who abducts children. His real identity
        is Harold Kripstly and sends special toys to children that
        teleport him to his secret hideout beneath a fast
        food restaurant. Thanks to a tip from Lois Lane after she was
        accidentally abducted by one of Harold's toys, Superman was able
        to save Lois and apprehend Harold.

[Chris Gauthier as Toyman in Smallville.]

-   The Toyman has appeared three times in Smallville._ In the
    fourteenth episode of the show's eighth season, titled "Requiem".
    Actor Chris Gauthier portrays Winslow Schott, a toymaker and former
    Queen Industries employee with a grudge against Oliver Queen.
    Winslow Schott is a scientific inventor at STAR Labs who was hired
    by Oliver Queen to work for Queen Industries. A great mind, though a
    bit eccentric, he expressed his individuality by bringing toys
    to work. However, he went too far when he began putting explosives
    in toys, which caused his immediate termination from the company. He
    is revealed to be working for Lex Luthor, currently disfigured and
    partially crippled, and hiding in a mobile base. He speaks to Luthor
    through a camera and microphone concealed in a wooden doll's head,
    and uses toys such as an exploding Newton's cradle, knockout
    gas-filled Mylar balloons, and an explosive cymbal-clanging monkey.
    After he fails twice to kill Oliver, he escapes police custody.
    Oliver Queen blows up Lex's mobile base with one of Toyman's toys in
    order to frame Schott, which puts him on the run. In that episode,
    Clark Kent referred to him as "Toyman" but most of the time he was
    referred as Toymaker; and is also referred to as "Toyboy". In the
    season 9 episode "Echo" he is referred as Toyman by himself, Chloe
    Sullivan, Clark and the Daily Planet. He attempts to test Clark by
    leaving a bomb next to a group of bound and gagged men and women he
    had kidnapped, eventually leading to Clark using his superspeed to
    rescue them. In that same episode, he returns and attempts to kill
    Oliver Queen as revenge for being framed for Lex's demise. This
    episode also has an android version of Schott. After he is caught,
    and facing time in solitary confinement, Tess Mercer visits Schott
    in jail and gives him the Kryptonite-powered heart to study which
    Zod and his men created to power John Corben in previous episodes.
    Toyman makes his final appearance in Smallville's penultimate
    episode "Prophecy" where he was still in jail confined to solitary,
    nevertheless he managed to gather a team called Marionette Ventures,
    an organization that works to control the water front properties
    composed by Metallo, Roulette, Dark Archer, Black Manta, Captain
    Cold and Solomon Grundy. Toyman was approached by Courtney Whitmore
    who was placed with a mind control device and used her to do his
    organization's bidding. When that failed, he was confronted by Lois
    Lane (who has Clark's powers for the day, a gift from Jor-El for
    their pending nuptials), who he convinced that if she did not put on
    the device that he would send his evil companions to destroy
    Clark Kent. He then sent her to kill him. However, she failed and
    Clark confronts Toyman face to face. Even though Toyman knew Clark's
    true identity, Clark knew he would not reveal it to the public
    because the Toyman still had some "games" to play. Finally he
    assures him no matter what he's planning for the future, he will
    always be there to stop him.
-   The Toyman appears in Supergirl, portrayed by Henry
    Czerny. He appears in episode "Childish Things".
    More than a decade ago, he tried to blow up his boss Chester Dunholz
    with a bomb disguised as a gift for supposedly stealing
    his projects. The bomb spared Dunholz, but killed six employees. At
    the time of the bombing, his son Winn Jr. (portrayed by Jeremy
    Jordan) was 11 years old, and had never forgiven him for giving in
    to his rage. After Schott escapes from prison, he attempts to kill
    Dunholz again, even going as far as to cajole Winn into joining the
    plot lest he blow up an entire convention center, before ultimately
    being apprehended by Supergirl.

Film

-   In the unproduced screenplay for Batman vs. Superman, Toyman makes
    a brief appearance as a reformed criminal that Batman interrogates
    and tortures in order to locate the Joker. When they are attacked by
    one of the Joker's deadly gadgets, Batman narrowly escapes, leaving
    Toyman to be caught in an explosion. His fate is not revealed in the
    script.
-   The Toyman appears in Superman: Doomsday voiced by John DiMaggio.
    Like most of the characters in this film, his appearance differs
    from that of the AU Toyman and he is portrayed in a more deranged
    and unkempt form with a goth-like form. In the movie, Toyman appears
    after Superman dies during a fight with Doomsday. Toyman (referred
    to in this movie as Winslow P. Schott) first uses a giant
    spider-like robot to hold a school bus full of children hostage
    after he robs a bank. After a secret clone of Superman defeats him,
    he attempts to go on the lam. Although police do recapture him, he
    kills a four-year-old girl off screen during the capture. Upon
    hearing the news, the Superman clone angrily takes Toyman from the
    police outside the police department. Toyman begs for his life, but
    the Superman clone drops him to his death from high above the city.
    Toyman lands on a police car onscreen, and his death marks the
    beginning of the Superman clone's harsher stance on crime than the
    real Superman.
-   The Hiro Okamura version of Toyman appears in Superman/Batman:
    Public Enemies voiced by Calvin Tran. He helps Superman and Batman
    into finding a way to stop the Kryptonite Meteor. His result being a
    ship that resembles Composite Superman. He is shown to be highly
    intelligent in the fields of science and technology and is stated to
    have an I.Q. of 210. He is also alluded to be hyper-sexually and
    inappropriately behaving towards Power Girl, who avoids his
    presence; at one point, when Batman and Superman arrive at his base,
    Power Girl says that she'll wait outside and when they go inside,
    Toyman tells them to tell Power Girl that he's sorry about the x-ray
    goggles as he takes the broken goggles off. In another instance,
    when asked if his rocket can stop the meteor, he retorts, "Does
    Power Girl have big---?" before Batman abruptly cuts him off.
-   The Jack Nimball Toyman appears in the direct-to-video animated film
    JLA Adventures: Trapped in Time voiced by Tom Gibis. He appears as
    a member of the Legion of Doom. In this version, he is actually a
    living wooden doll. In the future, his history is forgotten as his
    body is labeled "Unknown Totem".
-   In Justice League vs. Teen Titans, a character based on Toyman
    appears named the Toymaster, voiced by Steven Blum, as one of the
    members of the Legion of Doom. Toymaster is defeated and arrested
    along with the other members.

Video games

-   The Toyman appears in the  Universe Online video game, voiced by
    Matt Hislope.
-   In Batman: Arkham Origins Blackgate, upon completing the Detective
    Case called "Ground Zero", it is revealed that the Toyman was an
    inmate within Blackgate Penitentiary until he was blackmailed by
    someone outside the prison (implied to be Amanda Waller), who
    smuggled in an explosive bracelet and attached it to his arm. It is
    stated that Toyman was killed when he tried to remove the bracelet,
    but this is likely a continuity error considering this game takes
    place before the events of Batman: Arkham City unless there are
    different Toymen existing in this universe.
-   The Winslow Schott version of Toyman appears as a playable character
    in Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham, voiced by Nolan North.

Miscellaneous

-   Toyman appears in issue 2 of the Batman: The Brave and the
    Bold comics. The Hiro Omakura version also appears.
-   An unrelated Toyman appears in The Plastic Man Comedy/Adventure
    Show episode "Toyman" voiced by Alan Oppenheimer. This one is
    dressed like a jester, similar to the Jack Nimball version, but the
    costume is now red, green, and yellow and he has a wind up key on
    his back, which needs to be rewound at regular intervals to keep
    him animated.
-   The Hiro Okamura version of Toyman appears in the Catwoman: Queen
    of Thieves poast. They do not refer to him as Toyman but,
    according to the show, he had helped Catwoman steal things by
    inventing devices.
-   The Toyman featured in several segments of Robot Chicken 
    Universe Special voiced by Seth Green. He is mostly seen with the
    Legion of Doom.

