TUATARA is a fictional superhero in the  universe.


Fictional character biography

Tuatara's first appearance took place in Super Friends #8 (November
1977), which is set outside the mainstream  continuity. JEREMY
WAKEFIELD is a young New Zealander who can see through time with the
help of a third eye. He explained that with two eyes, we can see three
dimensions and with three eyes through four dimensions. The fourth
dimension is time. He thus named himself after the tuatara, a reptile
with a parietal eye or "third eye". In his first mission he helped the
Red Tornado dismantle a bomb in the Prehistoric Era. After aiding the
Super Friends fight against a time menace, Tuatura becomes a member of
the Global Guardians.

Brainwashing

Tuatara's first mainstream appearance was in Justice League
International vol. 1, #12 (April 1988). A few years later, the Global
Guardians are all brainwashed into service under the Queen Bee of Bialya
Tuatara, Rising Sun and Wild Huntsman are sent off on specific missions
to attack Nazi strongholds and Justice League members. Tuatara is sent
to attack a Neo-Nazi fringe group based in Dover, England. The Justice
League members Metamorpho, Elongated Man and Flash were traveling to the
site on a ferry when they encounter Tuatara. He had sneaked aboard the
ferry itself. The battle, which takes place mostly underwater, is ended
when he is wrapped up in the Elongated Man's body. He is taken to the
surface, calls the League members 'Nazis' and soon falls into a coma.

He is taken care of at an Australian medical facility, paid for by the
Justice League. A little bit before he was to move to the Justice League
International embassy medical ward, the Queen Bee sends a signal to
awaken him. He vanishes, which angers his Australian friend, the
Tasmanian Devil. He returns to Bialya, along with Rising Sun and Wild
Huntsman, who had awakened at the same time as he. All three are duly
brainwashed. Tuatara and his friends escape this brainwashing after
several battles with the Justice League and with other Guardians.

Other Dangers

All is not well. The new ruler of Bialya, President Harjavti, is just as
dangerous and deadly as the Queen Bee. Rising Sun has left for Japan and
Owlwoman has vanished. Unknown to them, Tuatara and his remaining
friends are in constant danger, as Harjavti struggles to keep control of
the team. Owlwoman eventually hunts down Doctor Mist and the original
Jack O'Lantern.

With his assistance, the Guardians escape from under the thumb of
Bialya.

Tuatara's last appearance was in Justice League Quarterly #17 (winter
1994). The Guardians are now based out of a South Pacific island and
Tuatara is not doing well at all. He comes to believe he is going insane
as a result of losing control of his precognition powers.

His friends, scattered across the world, are attacked by Fain Y'onia.
Godiva and Impala lose their powers. Olympian is badly injured.
Bushmaster is outright killed as a result of his confrontation.

Those able to fight gather in the Arizona desert. When Fain attempts to
attack Owlwoman, they ambush him. This attempt does not go well.
Thunderlord is killed and Tuatara takes a blow to the face. The Wild
Huntsman takes Fain out of this reality.

Due to his injuries, Tuatara falls into a coma. His medical care is
supervised by the former Guardians member Seraph.


Powers and abilities

Tuatara is a mutant born with the three eyes. The third eye somehow
gives Tuatara the ability to see into the past and into future, allowing
him to prevent events before they occur. This power also assists him in
hand-to-hand combat.

