TYROC is a fictional character in the  Universe, a member of the
Legion of Super-Heroes in the 30th and 31st centuries. He first appeared
in Superboy #216 (April 1976), and was created by Cary Bates and Mike
Grell. Debuting a year before Black Lightning, he is one of 's first
black costumed superheroes.


Publication history

Jim Shooter, who had been prevented from introducing black characters
into the Legion in the 1960s, objected to the characterization of
Tyroc: "...I always wanted to have a character who was African-American,
and years later, when they did that, they did it in the worst way
possible....instead of just incidentally having a character who happens
to be black...they made a big fuss about it. He's a racial
separatist....I just found it pathetic and appalling."

According to Mike Grell, who co-created Tyroc with Cary Bates, the
character of Tyroc was "sort of a sore spot with me." He had
previously tried to introduce black characters into the series, but had
been prevented by then-editor Murray Boltinoff. "I kept getting
stalled off...and finally comes Tyroc. They might as well have named him
Tyrone. Their explanation for why there were no black people [in the
Legion] was that all the black people had gone to live on an island.
It's possibly the most racist concept I've ever heard in my life...I
mean, it's a segregationist's dream, right? So they named him Tyroc, and
gave him the world's stupidest super-power."

Grell's dislike of Tyroc was strong enough that he deliberately made him
look ridiculous, saying, "I gave him a silly costume. It was somewhere
between Elvis' Las Vegas costume and something you would imagine a pimp
on the street corner wearing."

Grell notes that physically, Tyroc is based on the football player Fred
Williamson. "I modeled him somewhat on Fred "The Hammer" Williamson, who
was a movie star at the time...and gave him this "Elvis Presley goes to
Las Vegas" kind of a costume, and that's pretty much it. That was the
extent of my contribution to Tyroc."

Some writers like long-time Legion scribe Paul Levitz claimed that
Tyroc's powers, based upon sound, made him too difficult a character to
depict in a comic book . Tyroc was the only Legionnaire introduced prior
to 1989 that never appeared during Levitz's initial 15-year run on the
Legion (even the deceased Ferro Lad, Invisible Kid, and Chemical King
appeared in flashback stories). Levitz says this was because he
thought Tyroc was "just such a stupid character....a sound-based
character is, I think, intrinsically futile in a silent medium. He just
never worked for me, so I did my best to dodge him." Despite his
initial stance on the character, Levitz announced in a Newsarama
interview that Tyroc will be in his new Legion of Super-Heroes
series. Tyroc appears in Legion of Super-Heroes (vol. 6) #2
(August 2010), marking the first time that the character has appeared in
an in-continuity tale written by Levitz.


Fictional character biography

Marzal

Tyroc (real name Troy Stewart) was the only resident superhero of the
island of MARZAL, which usually existed in a different dimension. Like
Brigadoon, Marzal Island would sometimes reappear on Earth. Unlike the
legendary Scottish village, Marzal remained on Earth for several years
at a time in a location near a coast of Africa. In the native language
of Marzal, "Tyroc" means "Scream of the Devil".

Tyroc and his people were descended from African slaves who revolted on
a ship during middle passage in the 18th century. Once all the slavers
were set adrift, the liberated Africans settled on their own island off
the coast of Africa, and built a civilization. Much to their surprise,
their island paradise had a "Brigadoon-like" existence and disappeared
from this dimension on a regular schedule every 200 years.

Left on their own, the islanders developed an advanced, highly
technological civilization, with extreme isolationist tendencies.
Marzalians believed that the people of Earth had ignored their island.
As a result, outsiders were not welcome on Marzal.

The Legion

[Tyroc from Superboy#216
artist Mike Grell.] The Legion of Super-Heroes first met Tyroc when
several Legionnaires responded to an emergency on Marzal Island. At
first, Tyroc attempted to stop the Legion from assisting. After patching
up their differences and working together to save the island, Tyroc was
offered Legion membership. He initially refused, although he had come to
admire the tolerance and courage of the Legionnaires he had met.

In later encounters, Tyroc accepted the Legion's offer to join the team
and thus became the Legion's first black member. Tyroc and Black
Lightning were created to help  attract new readers and to provide
more opportunities for socially relevant stories.

Until Tyroc's addition to the Legion, almost every humanoid alien in
Legion stories were drawn with Caucasian facial features, including the
orange-skinned Chameleon Boy, the blue-skinned Shadow Lass, and the
green-skinned, blonde haired Brainiac 5.

Tyroc later returned to Marzal Island to be with his people when it left
the Earth reality. Shadow Lass, accompanying him, was almost trapped on
the island as it shifted dimensions.

President of New Earth

Marzal's destruction at the hands of the Dominion was documented during
the fourth volume of the Legion of Super-Heroes series while Keith
Giffen was the writer. The Dominators managed to destroy Marzal Island
within its dimensional pocket. An Earth recovering from the Dominion
takeover chose their war heroes to lead them. Jacques Foccart and Troy
Stewart, who had proven themselves as effective leaders of the rebel
forces, were rewarded with public offices by the people of Earth. Troy
Stewart became the planet's vice president, and Jacques became
president. Soon thereafter, Earth was destroyed in a disaster
reminiscent of the destruction of Krypton over a millennium earlier.
A few dozen cities and their inhabitants survived, and the planet was
reconstituted as New Earth. Eventually, Jacques resigned to rejoin the
Legion, and Troy ascended to the presidency.

This reality was erased from continuity by the events of the Zero Hour
miniseries.

Post-Zero Hour/"Threeboot"

Tyroc did not appear in the Legion's second major continuity, which ran
from 1994 through the end of 2004. In the "Threeboot" continuity which
began in 2005, Tyroc appears briefly (with several other Legionnaires
from previous incarnations of the team such as Blok and Dawnstar) in
Legion of Super-Heroes v5 #15, as a character in a 'campfire story'
showing the Legion's influence, and the urban legends and myths that
have sprung up around it. This appearance was a cameo, and does not seem
to take place in the series' actual continuity.

Post-Infinite Crisis

The events of the Infinite Crisis miniseries have apparently restored
a close analogue of the Pre-Crisis on Infinite Earths Legion to
continuity, as seen in "The Lightning Saga" story arc in Justice League
of America and Justice Society of America, and in the "Superman and
the Legion of Super-Heroes" story arc in Action Comics. A statue of
Tyroc was seen in Final Crisis: Legion of Three Worlds #1. The
Pre-Crisis on Infinite Earths Tyroc later appeared along with an
entire army of Legionnaires from alternate worlds, times, and realities,
at the Vanishing Point to fight the Time Trapper. In the current series
of Legion of Super-Heroes, Tyroc has rejoined the Legion.


Powers and abilities

Tyroc's superpower was his reality warping screams, which he could use
to create dimensional portals, force fields, transmute objects, freeze
objects, burn objects or simply destroy them. He could also teleport
himself and at least one other person, although the exact limits of this
ability were unknown. The effects and range of his powers were
consistent when he first appeared, but later seemed to vary with the
writer. Later writers often treated his power as simply being a "sonic
scream" similar to that of Black Canary.

Tyroc could fly using either his own inherent powers (as seen in his
first appearance before joining the Legion) or using his Legion flight
ring.

Scream effects

Among the screams in Tyroc's arsenal:

-   EEYYAAAHH!_ – pyrokinesis
-   AHHRRRRRR!_ – force field
-   OYYUUUUUU!_ – teleportation
-   ARRRRHHHH!_ – explosions
-   ZZZRRRUUGGHH!_ – telekinesis
-   UIUUIEEEE!_ – transmutation
-   ARRREEEEG!_ – weather manipulation
-   IRRRRWWWW!_ – plant manipulation
-   CCCIIIRRR!_ – vertigo
-   RRRYYYY!_ – wind manipulation


Equipment

As a member of the Legion of Super-Heroes he is provided a Legion Flight
Ring. It allows him to fly and protects him from the vacuum of space and
other dangerous environments.


Bibliography

-   Superboy vol. 1 #216, 218, 222
-   All-New Collectors' Edition #C-55 (1978)
-   Superboy and the Legion of Super-Heroes #250
-   Legion of Super-Heroes vol. 2 #263–265
-   Secrets of the Legion of Super-Heroes #1
-   Legion of Super-Heroes vol. 4 #16, 29, 32, 34–36, 38, 40, 41, 50,
    54, 59
-   Legionnaires #1, 9, 10, 12
-   Valor #22


Other media

Tyroc appeared several times in various episodes of the Legion of
Superheroes animated series in the series' two seasons:

-   Tyroc has a small cameo at the end of the first season "Timber
    Wolf" episode. His picture appears along with those of other
    Legionnaires as Timber Wolf recites the Legion oath. He later turned
    up in action during "The Substitutes" episode and has appeared
    sporadically in Season 2 background shots.
-   A young Tyroc appears in second season episode "In The Beginning",
    among a crowd of young Silver Age Legionnaires. He is sporting a
    huge Afro. In the series finale, "Dark Victory", Tyroc is seen in
    battle using an ultra-sonic howl against Brainiac's forces. The
    sound waves are rendered bright red, and they cause a piece of
    equipment to explode.

