ULTRA BOY (JO NAH of the planet Rimbor) is a fictional character, a
comic book superhero in . He is a member of the Legion of
Super-Heroes in the 30th and 31st centuries of the  Universe. Ultra
Boy gained his powers when the space-speedster he was flying was
swallowed by an ultra-energy beast (a "space whale"), exposing him to
radiation while inside. His real name is derived from the biblical
figure Jonah who also survived being swallowed by a "large fish" (often
considered to be a whale).

Ultra Boy's costume is a red top that had black striped cuffs and an
emblem in light green, a light green weight belt with three slots, black
shorts, green leggings, and red-topped, black boots with a crenelated
fringe.


Fictional character biography

Pre-Crisis

[Superboy #98] Ultra Boy first appeared in Superboy #98 (1962), in
which he was sent back in time to Superboy's home town of Smallville to
prove himself worthy of joining the Legion by learning Superboy's secret
identity. In his first adventure he only demonstrated his vision powers,
known as "Penetra-Vision". It was implied he had malicious intentions in
learning Superboy's secret identity. Later, in Adventure Comics #316, he
explained that he could channel his ultra-energy to provide him other
powers, though only one at a time. Later he was romantically linked for
many years with fellow Legionnaire Phantom Girl. He was considered one
of the Legion's 'big 3' (along with Superboy and Mon-El) and served two
terms as leader.

The names of his parents are Crav and Mytra Nah. His girlfriend on
Rimbor before he joined the Legion was An Ryd; she is later murdered by
Pulsar Stargrave, who frames Ultra Boy for the crime.

Ultra Boy is a skilled actor; this, combined with his rough background
on Rimbor and social standing, helps him infiltrate criminal groups when
he appears to "go bad". This skill also makes him a valuable member of
the Legion Espionage Squad; he is the only member without overt "spy"
powers.

Legion (vol. 4)_

Between volumes 3 and 4 of the Legion, a five-year gap in the
chronology occurred, during which the team disbanded. During this period
Ultra Boy proposed to Phantom Girl, but she was apparently killed in an
accident. Now known simply as Jo Nah, he had become a smuggler and an
outlaw on his homeworld of Rimbor. He rejoined the Legion after
assassins destroyed an entire apartment building trying to kill him.

A later storyline in the V4 Legion Annual #1 showed his acting skills.
It was shown that for years Ultra Boy had played "dumber" than he was,
to not give away any advantage to his foes. When the time sorceress
Glorith began manipulating Legion history, she figured only the smarter
legionnaires might notice her manipulations, and thus acted to
neutralize ones like Brainiac 5. She never suspected Ultra Boy would
figure out her plan, which involved provoking a battle between the
Legion and Mordru at the zenith of his power, which would destroy or
weaken both, allowing her to pick up the pieces. Realizing what this
would mean, Ultra Boy first (in a fake diplomatic blunder) prevented the
Legion from attacking Mordru, then, in disguise, visited Mordru and
instead provoked him into attacking Glorith. This proved successful,
leaving both Mordru and Glorith severely weakened. Years later Glorith
finally figured out who was responsible and in revenge sent Phantom Girl
into the past, leaving Ultra Boy believing her dead. Later still the
Legion found themselves on the wrong side of the law and Ultra Boy
adopted a new identity as Emerald Dragon.

During the "Five Year Gap" following the Magic Wars, Earth fell under
the covert control of the Dominators, and withdrew from the United
Planets. A few years later, the members of the Dominators' highly
classified "Batch SW6" escaped captivity. Originally, Batch SW6 appeared
to be a group of teenage Legionnaire clones, created from samples
apparently taken just prior to Ferro Lad's death at the hands of the
Sun-Eater. Later, they were revealed to be time-paradox duplicates,
every bit as legitimate as their older counterparts. After Earth was
destroyed in a disaster reminiscent of the destruction of Krypton over a
millennium earlier, a few dozen surviving cities and their
inhabitants reconstituted their world as New Earth. The SW6
Legionnaires—including their version of Ultra Boy—remained.

Post-Zero Hour

In post-Zero Hour continuity, his background is very similar to the
original. He was a gang leader on Rimbor (running a gang called the
Emerald Dragons, a reference to his Five Years Later identity), before
being eaten by an Ultra Energy Beast and gaining his powers from eating
the creature's flesh. He initially does not join the Legion but instead
joins a rival group called the Workforce, and is briefly romantically
linked to Spider Girl (Sussa Paka) before meeting and falling in love
with Apparition, the post-Zero Hour incarnation of Phantom Girl, when
the Workforce and Legion are stranded on Planet Hell, a prison complex
located inside the sun. Eventually Ultra Boy leaves the Workforce and
becomes a member of the Legion.

Ultra Boy and Apparition eventually marry and have a son named Cub, just
before the Legion's reality was rebooted for the second time.

2005 Reboot

The Legion was rebooted again in 2005. Ultra Boy in this version seems
much the same as his previous versions but does not have a romantic link
with Phantom Girl; he is in a relationship with Shadow Lass. Trained by
Karate Kid in a more responsible and tactical use of his superpowers,
it's known by at least Triplicate Girl that on Rimbor, "he is charged
for a crime he never committed", but refuses to say more on the
question. He is later cleared of this crime (revealed to be Vehicular
Homicide) when Legion business manager M'rissy discovered evidence that
led to his innocence. Kinder and mellower than his gruff exterior may
express, he's the first one to sense Imra's displeasure and insecurities
for being constantly neglected by her boyfriend, Lightning Lad. This
however leads to a brief affair with the Titanian girl.

Post-Infinite Crisis

The events of the Infinite Crisis miniseries have apparently restored
a close analogue of the Pre-Crisis on Infinite Earths Legion to
continuity, as seen in "The Lightning Saga" story arc in Justice League
of America and Justice Society of America, and in the "Superman and
the Legion of Super-Heroes" story arc in Action Comics. Ultra Boy is
included in their number.


Powers and abilities

Ultra Boy's source of power comes from the exposure of the radiation
inside the Ultra-Energy Beast, and is not dependent on yellow-sun
radiation. He has the powers of superhuman strength, flight,
penetra-vision (similar to Superboy's x-ray vision, except
penetra-vision allows him to see through lead), flash vision (similar to
heat vision), invulnerability, and ultra-speed. All of these abilities
seem to be at Kryptonian power levels, but he can only use one at a
time. Also he does not appear to have super hearing. Whereas Superman's
heat vision is usually depicted as red beams, Ultra Boy's flash vision
is usually (at least in Silver Age adventures) depicted as blue beams.

He is vulnerable to "X-radiation", which affects him much as kryptonite
harms Kryptonians. He cannot use his ultra speed to break the "time
barrier" since the stress would destroy his body, thus he flies with
invulnerable comrades.

Along with the skills mentioned above, he has twice been elected as
leader of the Legion, and has served several terms as deputy leader.


Equipment

As a member of the Legion of Super-Heroes he is provided a Legion Flight
Ring. It allows him to fly and protects him from the vacuum of space and
other dangerous environments. With his Legion flight ring (or earlier
flight belt) he can use another power while flying.


In other media

-   In Superman: The Animated Series, Ultra Boy made a cameo
    appearance in the 1998 episode "New Kids In Town". He later
    reappeared in a 2006 episode of Justice League Unlimited titled
    "Far From Home".
-   In episode 1.05 of the Legion of Super Heroes animated series
    (2006), Jo Nah appeared as a participant in the Intergalactic Games,
    an Olympics-like event in which Lightning Lad also competes. When
    the Fatal Five attack the games, Jo, along with Kem of Bismoll,
    helps the Legion defeat them, calling out the names of four of his
    various ultra-powers as he activates them ("Super strength!"
    "Invulnerability!" "Super-speed!" "Freezing breath!"). Phantom Girl
    compliments his skills (and thinks to herself that he's cute). In
    the first season finale, Jo Nah made a cameo, in costume, having
    been sent by his homeplanet to help the Legion stop the Sun-Eater.
    He also appeared in the episode "In The Beginning" and the season
    two finale Dark Victory. Jo Nah was voiced by James Arnold Taylor.
-   In the Champions (role-playing game), the term "Ultra Slot" is used
    to describe one of the powers within a framework in which only one
    power can be used at a time. The multipower framework is based
    directly on Ultra Boy and in fact was originally called the "Ultra"
    (hence "Ultra Slot").

