ULTRAA is a  character, originally the first superhuman on
Earth Prime. The original first appeared in Justice League of America
#153 (April 1978), he was created by Gerry Conway and George Tuska. The
current Ultraa first appeared in Justice League Quarterly #13 (Winter
1993), written by Kevin Dooley and drawn by Greg LaRocque. A new version
of Ultraa appears in Grant Morrison's The Multiversity project.


Fictional character biography

Ultraa (Pre-Crisis)

Ultraa's origin was very similar to Superman's, in that he was born on
an alien world, and sent to Earth to escape its destruction. He landed
in the Australian Outback and was raised by Indigenous Australians. In
his first appearance, Ultraa plans to go to the United States of America
and become a superhero. As he runs across the ocean, he is detected by
the US Air Force, which sends a plane after him. Ultraa retaliates to
this attack, and is mistaken for a villain by the Justice League, who
are visiting from Earth One. Ultraa eventually decides Earth Prime was
not ready for superheroes and accompanies the League back to their
world.

Ultraa next appeared following a battle between the League and the
Injustice Gang which threatened civilians, he decides Earth One was also
endangered by the presence of superhumans. He uses a ray gun to create a
feeling of apathy in both the League and the Injustice Gang.
Unfortunately, it works on the heroes but has the opposite effect on the
villains. Ultraa attempts to fight the Injustice Gang single handedly
but fails. After the JLA overcome the ray's effects to defeat the Gang,
they question whether they can trust Ultraa any longer.

As a result of their second encounter with Ultraa, the League imprisons
him in a "stasis cube" prison of Superman's design. He is later released
by an alien hive mind entity disguised as a human attorney. The alien
entity helps Ultraa take the Justice League members who imprisoned him
to court for wrongful imprisonment, but it is later learned that the
trial is meant as a distraction to keep the JLA from noticing that the
bulk of the hive mind entity, known as the Over-Complex, was stealing
the hydrogen atoms from the world's oceans.

After this, a dispirited Ultraa adopts the civilian guise of Jack Grey
and lives a simple life as a busboy in Atlantic City where he is
manipulated by a down and out former opponent of the Justice League, but
a heart to heart talk with Hawkman convinces him to break off the attack
and Ultraa subsequently decides to live out his life among Earth-1's
Australian aborigines. This is his last pre-Crisis appearance.

Ultraa (Post-Crisis)

Following the Crisis on Infinite Earths, the original Ultraa was
retconned out of history, along with Earth-Prime. In Justice League
Quarterly #13 (Winter 1993), Ultraa is reintroduced as a native of
Almerac and the betrothed of Queen Maxima. He arrives on Earth to look
for her, and gets into a long and brutal fight with Captain Atom.
Captain Atom briefly gains the upper hand and nearly kills Ultraa,
however he realizes that he himself is behaving as brutally as Ultraa
and decides to throw the fight in order not to set a poor example (that
might is right) for an onlooking boy. Ultraa in turn starts beating up
Captain Atom, but Maxima intervenes and tells him to leave. Maxima then
tells Captain Atom he can stop pretending he is unconscious and the two
walk off together. Ultraa later appears as a member of the United
Nations funded League Busters in Justice League International v2, #65
(Jun 1994).

Ultra Comics (Multiversity)

In Grant Morrison's Multiversity series, the eighth installment, The
Multiversity: Ultra Comics #1 features a new version of the character,
named "Ultra Comics." He comes from Earth-Prime, now also designated
Earth-33. He is described as a self-aware idea, a hero created by the
"Memesmiths" of Earth-Prime to defend us from the Gentry. As
flesh-and-blood superhumans don't exist here on Earth-Prime, Ultra only
exists in the form of a "cybernetic comic book" That is, the comic books
themselves are his "body," and he gets his powers from the minds of his
readers, suggesting that we are empowering, and essentially becoming,
him whenever we read his comic. Within the story, he is depicted as a
superhero created in a laboratory and sent out into battle against the
Gentry, eventually facing off against the Post-Crisis version of
Ultraa.


Powers and abilities

-   The original Ultraa could not fly but had super speed, supersenses,
    and super strength. He could run fast enough to pass over large
    bodies of water. This Ultraa's only weakness was targeted
    ultrasonics.
-   As a scion of the Blood Royale of Almerac the modern Ultraa commands
    a vast array of powers that come from years of selective breeding
    and gene therapy. Like Maxima the current Ultraa has incredible
    strength, telepathy, telekinesis and flight.
-   As a narrative construct, Ultra Comics also possessed a vast array
    superhuman powers - all completely fictional and generated
    by readers. Ultra Comics demonstrated superhuman strength, flight,
    and other abilities gifted to him by the "Ultragem," a crystal
    consisting of pure imagination.


Notes

-   The Pre-Crisis version of Ultraa was the first superhero to appear
    on his particular parallel Earth. The second was Superboy Prime.
-   An alternate version of Ultraa from one of the Earths in the
    post-Infinite Crisis universe was killed in Countdown: Arena #1.

