GARY CONCORD, THE ULTRA-MAN is the name of two fictional comic-book
superheroes, father and son, that first appeared during the 1940s, the
period fans and historians call the Golden Age of comic books. Both were
characters of All-American Publications, which merged, in 1946, with 
Comics-predecessor National Periodical Publications.

They are separate from the  Universe character Ultraman, a
supervillain and evil counterpart of Superman, who was introduced in
Justice League of America #29 (cover-dated Aug. 1964) and from the
Japanese superhero Ultraman.


Publication history

Created by writer-artist Jon L. Blummer under the pseudonym Don Shelby,
Gary Concord the Ultra-Man debuted in All-American's flagship title,
All-American Comics #8 (Nov. 1939), in the first part of a two-part
story. In All-American Comics #9 (Dec. 1939), the story continues with
Gary Concord, Jr., who would appear until issue #19 in 1940.

The latter Ultra-Man made a flashback appearance in "The Last
Earth-Prime Story", in Superman #411 (Sept. 1985) and had a cameo as a
potentially sentient billboard in "Ultra Comics" (2015).


Fictional character biographies

Gary Concord Sr., a 20th-century scientist, had devoted his life to
finding the means to end war. In 1950, an accident put him into
suspended animation. He awoke as a chemically altered superhuman in the
year 2174. His son, Gary Concord Jr., is born in 2214 to the
lifespan-lengthened Gary Sr. and wife Leandra – daughter of the tyrant
Rebborizon, whom Gary Sr. defeated. Rebborizon eventually returned to
kill his own daughter, however, prompting Gary Sr. to kill Rebborizon in
return.

After Gary Sr. dies of natural causes in 2239, Gary Jr. succeeds him as
both Ultra-Man and as High Moderator of the United States of North
America, the country's chief executive. He battles the warlord Tor and
other menaces, and is later put into suspended animation until the 100th
century. An encounter with the superheroine XS (Jenni Ognats) of the
Legion of Super-Heroes inspires Ultra-Man to form his own such team with
fellow heroes Avatar, Behemoth, and Metallica on the planet Almeer-5.

Years later, Gary Jr. would appear in Grant Morrison's Multiversity
series. He is seen to currently inhabit an unnamed version of Earth,
alongside other characters with variants of the word "ultra" in their
names, including Ultra the Multi-Alien and Ultraa.

