JONATHAN SAMUEL KENT also known as JONATHAN WHITE is a fictional teenage
superhero appearing in American comic books published by . He
is the son of Lois Lane and Superman, and first appeared in
Convergence: Superman #2. He is the latest character in the 
Universe to assume the Superboy persona, and will co-star with Damian
Wayne in the upcoming  book series Super Sons.


Publication history

The character was created by writer Dan Jurgens and first appeared in
the  2015 Convergence event in the miniseries Convergence:
Superman #2 (July 2015). Jonathan is the biological firstborn son of
pre-Flashpoint Superman and Lois Lane, and is half Kryptonian/Human.
He was named by his parents in honor of both of his grandfathers
(Jonathan Kent and Sam Lane). Jonathan is very intelligent. His physical
appearance resembles his father Clark, but has his mother Lois' spitfire
attitude and inquisitiveness.

Following Convergence, he appeared in the spin-off eight issue comic
book series Superman: Lois and Clark. With the series set nine
years after the Convergence event, where Superman and his wife Lois and
their 9-year-old son Jonathan has been living and working in the New 52
universe. In the 2016  Rebirth, Jonathan will appeared with his
parents in the  series Action Comics and Superman. He
will also co-star with Damian Wayne in the new comic book series, Super
Sons, as the new Superboy and Robin. The series debuting in September
2016, written by Chris Burns, Dennis Culver and art by Jorge
Jimenez.


Fictional character biography

In the 2015 's Convergence storyline, Brainiac gains access to
Vanishing Point, which allowed him to gained the ability to look back
into the histories of the  Universe. He collected cities and
inhabitants from various timelines that have ended, trapping them in
domes on a planet outside of time and space. When the Flashpoint
reset the  continuity, Superman and Lois Lane from the post-Infinite
Crisis and pre-Flashpoint continuity has been trapped on the planet
Telos in their world's Gotham City, with the city having been
transported there by Brainiac and sealed under a large dome. The couple
has been trap in the city for almost nine months, and as Superman's
powers had been suppressed during this time, he and Lois were able to
conceive a child. During the event, Superman managed to get Lois out
of danger and into safety, after she was kidnapped by a mentally
unstable Flashpoint Superman. And helped his wife Lois with the birth of
their son Jonathan. At the end of the Convergence arc, Superman,
Lois, and Jonathan traveled across time and dimensions along with the
Pre-Crisis versions of Supergirl and the Flash, and the Zero Hour
version of Parallax, where they were able to prevent the events of
Crisis on Infinite Earths and save the original Multiverse.
Afterward, with their own world no longer existing, Brainiac offered to
send Superman, Lois, and Jonathan to a universe of their choosing. They
chose the New 52's Earth-0, the main  universe, arriving during
the beginning of the New 52.

In the New 52 universe, Superman and his family lived in secrecy for 9
years, moving to California and adopted new identities. Taking the
surname "White" (a tribute to Perry White) and keeping a low profile,
staying out of the lives of this world's superheroes. With Lois becoming
an anonymous author, while Superman continues his superhero duty quietly
behind the scenes. Jonathan grew up in a normal life with his
parents and was unaware of their real identities and secret activities.
Now nine years old, he began noticing contradictions in his parents'
stories and begins to suspect that his parents are more than they claim.
He is eventually shown starting to developed superpowers of his own,
similar to those of his father Superman. After he and his mother
Lois was kidnapped and also most killed by Intergang, his parents
finally revealed their true origin to him.


Powers and abilities

Jonathan first developed superpowers at age 9. One of the first powers
he had was super hearing. Other powers including invulnerability and
superhuman strength, began to manifest when both he and his mother was
put in danger. And using his superpowers he was able to save their
lives.

