VIBE (real name PACO RAMONE or FRANCISCO "CISCO" RAMON) is a comic book
superhero published by . He first appeared in Justice League
of America Annual #2 (October 1984), and was created by Gerry Conway
and Chuck Patton. Vibe made his live action debut in The CW's
television series The Flash as Cisco Ramon, portrayed by actor Carlos
Valdes.


Fictional character biography

Paco Ramone or Francisco "Cisco" Ramon's career as Vibe began shortly
after Aquaman disbanded the original Justice League. When young Cisco
heard that a new Justice League was forming in his own hometown of
Detroit, he decided to give up his position as the leader of a local
street gang, Los Lobos, to join. What made Ramon a candidate was his
metahuman ability to emit powerful vibratory shock waves.

Vibe's presence on the team caused Aquaman and the Martian Manhunter to
harbor some strong doubts about the new JLA, particularly after he got
the League involved in a rumble with a rival gang. Vibe soon proved
his mettle during the League's battles against Cadre, Anton
Allegro and Amazo. He stayed with the League through the Crisis
on Infinite Earths crossover, when his powers played a vital role in
defeating Despero.

During Darkseid's assault on Earth during the Legends mini-series, the
Justice League of America was disbanded and Paco left his JLA comrades
to seek the familiar solace of the streets. Vibe was attacked by one of
Professor Ivo's androids, and became the first Justice League member to
be killed in the line of duty. The Martian Manhunter brought Vibe's
body back to the League's mountain sanctuary, where Vibe was laid to
rest in a cryogenic chamber. Paco's dead form has twice been resurrected
by evil-doers.

One of Vibe's younger brothers, Armando, developed a similar set of
vibratory powers and joined Booster Gold's team of heroes, the
Conglomerate, using the code names Reverb and later Hardline. He has
since been depicted as the owner of a dance club named Reverb in the
Little Tachyon section of Old Town Metropolis.

In the Trinity maxi-series, reality is altered, and a living Cisco is
shown as a member of The League, an underground version of the Justice
League. Soon after Superman, Batman and Wonder Woman return, his
head is disintegrated by an energy blast, killing him again.

Blackest Night

In a Justice League of America tie-in to the "Blackest Night"
storyline, Vibe was reanimated as a member of the Black Lantern Corps,
rising from his coffin in the Hall of Justice. Alongside the Black
Lantern Steel, Vibe attacked his former teammates, Gypsy and Vixen,
until Doctor Light destroyed him.

The New 52

In 's Free Comic Book Day 2012 sample during The New 52, a gatefold
revealed various characters who will make an appearance in Justice
League over the coming year, one of which is Vibe. Geoff Johns revealed
that Vibe's return would be explored in greater detail in the third
story arc of Justice League. On August 26, 2012,  announced a
new Justice League of America title which would feature Vibe. On
November 5, 2012,  announced that Vibe would star in his own ongoing
monthly title. It was written by Andrew Kreisberg and drawn by Pete
Woods and debuted in February 2013. In new continuity, Vibe's powers
derive from being "caught in the event horizon of a Boom Tube", in which
"interdimensional forces rewrote his DNA". Justice League of America's
Vibe lasted for ten issues, with the final issue released on December
18, 2013.


Powers and abilities

Vibe's sonic powers enabled him to create shock waves of considerable
strength. His power could shatter concrete or steel. His agility was
above average (and he was a superb breakdancer). Under Batman's
tutelage, Vibe became a more skilled combatant.

Vibe's reintroduction in 2013 has sought to establish him as a more
powerful character. Part of this was redefining his powers as having to
do with interdimensional physics. Justice League of America
establishes that Vibe's sonic waves have the power to disrupt the Speed
Force, making him one of the few characters in the  Universe who poses
a serious threat to the Flash. For this reason, he is recruited into
the JLA by Steve Trevor, which exists to guard against the threat of the
main Justice League going rogue. In Justice League of America's
Vibe #3, Amanda Waller says "Cisco Ramon might be one of the most
powerful super-humans on the planet. He wields vibrational powers that
could in theory shake the Earth apart. And he's the only person we know
of who can find and track interdimensional breaches."  He is also
undetectable by security cameras.


Other versions

Justice League Unlimited

Vibe has a major role in issue 15 of the Justice League Unlimited
comic book series where he stopped Doctor Sivana's plan to rebuild
Mister Atom.


In other media

Television

-   Vibe has made several non-voiced appearances in Justice League
    Unlimited. He was often seen next to other members of the Detroit
    League, but he did not get a major role in any episode. His most
    prominent action is helping rescue New Mexico city's civilians
    in "Flashpoint". He is also shown with fellow Detroit-era members
    Vixen, Steel and Gypsy in the final "curtain call" of the series
    finale "Destroyer".
-   Vibe made an appearance in his 2-part  Nation cartoon short called
    "Enter Extremo". Voiced by Carlos Alazraqui.

Arrowverse

[Carlos Valdes as Cisco Ramon on the CW series The Flash.]

-   Carlos Valdes portrays Cisco Ramon on The CW's Arrow and The
    Flash. He debuted in the Arrow episode "The Man Under the Hood"
    and is a series regular on The Flash. Along with Dr. Caitlin Snow,
    he is part of the S.T.A.R. Labs team which supports Barry Allen to
    save lives and fight crime as the Flash, and eventually becomes good
    friends with Barry. He helps design technology to assist Barry's
    superhero career as the Flash, and in crossover episodes with
    Arrow, provides augmentation for Green Arrow, the Atom, Black
    Canary and John Diggle as well. He was also mentioned in Arrow to
    have made Oliver's new Green Arrow costume, and in the pilot episode
    of Legends of Tomorrow as having made Sara Lance's White
    Canary costume. Cisco is fond of inventing colorful names for the
    villains Barry's team comes across, giving them their supervillain
    monikers from the comics. In Season 1, Cisco is shown to have a
    strained relationship with his immediate family. His parents dote on
    his older brother, Dante, and don't know what to make of Cisco's
    genius-level intellect. Nevertheless, Cisco does love his family, to
    the point of revealing the Flash's true identity to Captain Cold to
    keep Dante from being tortured. Cisco, like the others, later learns
    that his mentor Harrison Wells is really the murderous
    Reverse-Flash; Cisco's curiosity and creative intelligence are
    instrumental in exposing this, particularly in an averted timeline
    in which he is killed for his discovery before Barry erases that
    timeline while trying to prevent a massive tidal wave striking
    Central City. It is also revealed that Cisco was also affected by
    the particle accelerator blast. As a result, he can detect and
    remember alternate timelines, including recalling the events that
    led to his death in the timeline that Barry subsequently erased.
    Wells hints that Cisco may have other abilities and that he is at
    the beginning of a "great adventure." In Season 2, it is shown that
    Cisco can see where the metahumans of Earth-2 are with his powers,
    allowing him to inform Barry of their location. He keeps it hidden
    for a little bit, dreading that the powers could make him like
    Wells, but Harry Wells of Earth-2 reveals Cisco's secret to the team
    (which Cisco claims he was already planning to do). Afterwards,
    Barry and Caitlin follow Cisco's tradition and nickname him "Vibe"
    based on his visions. Wells later determines that Cisco's
    powers are triggered by adrenaline and helps him construct goggles
    to recreate the effect. When Cisco "vibes" the Reverse-Flash's
    return, he sees future events as well as the present time, further
    expanding his abilities. Cisco's life becomes endangered since the
    Reverse-Flash is from an earlier point in the timeline; although
    Reverse-Flash is captured, keeping the speedster prisoner in the
    21st century creates a paradox that nearly causes Cisco to fade from
    existence, given the temporal nature of his "vibes". The Flash team
    has no alternative but to send Reverse-Flash back to his own time -
    later to become the Wells of season 1 - to keep Cisco from dying. In
    "Trajectory", Cisco admits that he'd been 'vibing' about Zoom every
    time he was near Jay's helmet (on display in the lab after Jay's
    apprent death). Barry gives Cisco the helmet to confirm his
    suspicions regarding Zoom. Cisco has a vision of Zoom unmasking, and
    he tells the Flash team what he sees: that Zoom is Jay. When Barry
    wants Cisco to heighten his abilities so that he can re-open a
    breech to Earth-2, Cisco resists, worried that having such strong
    abilities might turn him just as bad as Reverb. Barry reassures him
    that that would never happen, since Cisco would have the support of
    his friends. Cisco develops the ability to harness the energies he
    uses to "vibe" and channel it into opening another breech to
    Earth-2, which Zoom promptly comes through.
    -   Cisco's Earth-2 counterpart is a supervillain named REVERB, with
        the ability to shoot powerful vibrating waves from his hands,
        much like the comic book version. He claims that his Earth-1
        doppelganger is more powerful than he realizes. He is also the
        boss of Killer Frost and Deathstorm. Reverb declares his intent
        to betray Zoom and offers Cisco the chance to join him in ruling
        Central City, which Cisco declines. When Reverb nearly kills the
        Earth-1 Flash, Zoom appears and kills Reverb for disobeying him,
        coincidentally using the same manner the Reverse-Flash used to
        kill Cisco. In "Versus Zoom", Wells says that Reverb could
        harness the energy of the multiverse, allowing him to see into
        parallel worlds, and could attack using the energy as a weapon,
        as he did with Barry. Cisco's brother Dante is also a
        supervillain on Earth-2 named Rupture, who comes to Earth-1 to
        avenger his brother's death.

-   Cisco appears in the Arrow episode "Broken Arrow" when Ray Palmer
    brings the metahuman Jake Simmons to S.T.A.R. Labs
    for incarceration. Cisco approves of Ray's naming Simmons
    "Deathbolt" and brings up the question as to how Simmons got his
    powers, since he wasn't in Central City when the particle
    accelerator exploded.

-   In the Legends of Tomorrow episode "Fail-Safe", Cisco appears in a
    hallucination experienced by Martin Stein when Valentina Vostok
    attempts to interrogate him for the Firestorm formula. However,
    Stein sees through the illusion as the hallucinatory Cisco is too
    smartly-dressed and too respectful towards him.

-   Cisco is also referred to in the Supergirl crossover episode,
    "Worlds Finest". Here, Barry discovers that Cisco Ramon does not
    exist on Supergirl's Earth.

Film

-   Vibe's Earth-3 counterpart Breakdance is shown in the movie Justice
    League: Crisis on Two Earths, voiced by Carlos Alazraqui. He is a
    member of the Crime Syndicate of America and first appears as part
    of Owlman's clean-up crew. Breakdance is shown with the other evil
    counterparts of the Detroit-era Justice League, including Gypsy
    Woman and Vamp.

Video games

-   Vibe appears as playable character in Lego Batman 3: Beyond
    Gotham, voiced by Dee Bradley Baker.

Web series

-   Cisco Ramon appears in the animated Web Series: Vixen, voiced by
    Carlos Valdes. In episode 3, Cisco has been running a modified
    facial recognition algorithm created by Felicity Smoak at S.T.A.R.
    Labs in an attempt to locate Meta-humans outside Central City. The
    software picks up Mari's encounter with the thugs from episode 1,
    and Cisco alerts a distracted Barry Allen attempting to locate a
    missing USB drive containing crime scene statistics. Cisco gives
    Mari the name "Vixen", and tells Barry that she's currently in
    Detroit before asking him to check out the situation.
-   In the Web Series  Super Hero Girls, Vibe is one of the
    background students.

