VIXEN (MARI JIWE MCCABE) is a comic book character created by Gerry
Conway and Bob Oksner. She first appeared in Action Comics #521 (July
1981), published by .


Publication history

Vixen was intended to be the first African female  superhero to star
in her own series, but the first issue of her series was cancelled in
the  Implosion in 1978, never to be released. The story was
subsequently printed in Cancelled Comic Cavalcade.

Since her debut in Action Comics,_ she has primarily appeared in team
books, most notably various incarnations of the Justice League and
Suicide Squad._

In October 2008, G. Willow Wilson began the new five-issue limited
series, Vixen: Return of the Lion.


Fictional character biography

In ancient Africa, the warrior Tantu asked Anansi the Spider to create a
totem that would give the wearer all of the powers of the animal
kingdom, only if they would use the power to protect the innocent. Tantu
used the totem to become Africa's first legendary hero. The totem was
later passed down to Tantu's descendants until it reached the McCabes.

Growing up in a small African village in the fictional nation of
Zambesi, M'Changa province, MARI JIWE MCCABE heard the legend of the
"Tantu Totem" from her mother. Sometime later, Mari's mother was killed
by poachers and she was raised by her father Reverend Richard Jiwe, the
village priest. Reverend Jiwe himself was killed by his half-brother
(Mari's uncle) General Maksai. Maksai wanted the Tantu Totem, which Jiwe
had possessed.

[Vixen debuts in Action Comics #521.]

Mari ultimately moved to America, where she established an identity as
Mari McCabe and got a job as a model in New York City. She used her
newfound wealth to travel the world. On a trip back to Africa, she came
across her uncle and took back the Tantu Totem, using its power to
become the costumed superhero VIXEN.

Fighting crime

Vixen made only two appearances as a solo crime fighter: once fighting
poachers in India and once fighting against the techno-psycho
criminal Admiral Cerebrus. She was a reluctant hero until the Justice
League of America was reorganized by Aquaman. She applied for full-time
League membership and was accepted. During her time with the JLA, the
totem was taken from her by General Maksai, who still sought its
power. The totem would only grant its full power to those who would
use it to protect the innocent, and it caused Maksai to be transformed
into a raging beast. Maksai died in battle with Vixen. When the team
faced the killer android Amazo, Vixen and several of her teammates were
beaten into unconsciousness and then left bound and gagged in a walled
off pit. Vixen saved the lives of herself and her fellow Leaguers by
using her powers to shatter her bonds and dig to freedom. Vixen
continued with that particular incarnation of the JLA until two members
were killed, Steel and Vibe, and it was disbanded by the Martian
Manhunter.

Around this time, Vixen teamed up with Animal Man. She traveled to his
suburban house with knowledge of a mysterious, murderous force that was
affecting Animal Man's powers. He found himself unable to access his
powers correctly.

Suicide Squad

Vixen returned to modeling, but a Caribbean photo session turned
violent; Mari's colleagues were killed by drug smugglers. She appealed
to the government, who turned the matter over to the Suicide Squad. She
went undercover to capture the drug kingpin Cujo, who had been revealed
by footage shot during the photo shoot. Along with Captain Boomerang and
Black Orchid, she destroyed the operation, but not before she lost
control and killed the criminal kingpin. Revolted by what she had
become, she agreed to work with the Squad until her animal instincts can
be curbed. She worked with the Squad for some time, again seeing
more teammates and friends killed. When it is disbanded for a year,
Mari returned to modeling and even launched a successful line of
clothing. Her failed romance with Ben Turner (the Bronze Tiger) made
Vixen decline an offer to rejoin the Squad. She realized that Turner
needs mental support, and she reluctantly returned. She ultimately
gave up on a future with the Tiger, sensing that he would never admit to
needing help, and left the team.

Other adventures

After the Suicide Squad's heyday, Mari continued to do undercover work.
She was drafted for at least one mission for Checkmate (the Squad's
brother organization). At some point, she assisted Oracle and the
Birds of Prey. She went undercover to investigate a strange "superhero"
cult, where the leader was using mind control and winds up brainwashed
by him herself. The Huntress tried to help her and was nearly killed.
Vixen regained her senses by channeling the stubbornness of a mule to
hold back the mind control of the cult leader. She and Huntress then
rescued the other brainwashed heroes.

Vixen may still have had trouble controlling her animal side while using
the totem, as witnessed when she worked alongside the Flash to stop
Gorilla Grodd. She also served on one mission with the Justice
League Task Force, came to Wonder Woman's aid during a battle with
Circe, and helped her former JLA comrades protect Lex Luthor.
She then joined the loose-knit Ultramarine Corps. While part of the
Corps, Mari was brainwashed by Gorilla Grodd who sends her and other
heroes to battle the JLA. Ultimately, Vixen and the others were freed.

Infinite Crisis

After the murder of Sue Dibny in the Identity Crisis miniseries, Vixen
rejoined her Justice League colleagues. She was present when the
original Firestorm died during a battle with the Shadow Thief. Vixen
adopted a new uniform in Infinite Crisis #7, similar to the one worn
by her television counterpart on Justice League Unlimited.

One Year Later

Vixen was tricked into battle in Hub City by a currently intelligent
Solomon Grundy (whose rebirth came with increased
intelligence). The totem was essential to Grundy's plans; he
intended to use it as a catalyst to merge his perpetually reincarnating
soul with the shell of the Amazo android, and thus gain further power.
Grundy used the totem to increase the metahuman mimicking abilities of
Amazo. Without her totem, Vixen found that her innate connection to the
"Red", the 'essence' of animal life', was falling apart. She managed
to 'lock onto' the totem, but her mind became lost in a flock of
migrating birds. After mimicking the abilities of a young boy, Vixen
managed to regain her mind and quickly flew to New York to retrieve her
totem. Vixen literally dropped into the JLA battle against
Amazo. After the villains were subdued, Vixen became a charter
member of the newly revamped Justice League of America.

Justice League of America

Vixen's main story arc in the early issues of Justice League of
America Vol. 2, centered around a change in her powers; Vixen changed
from no longer drawing on animal characteristics, but to drawing on the
powers of those around her. She would match others' skill levels and, as
she suspected, would drain powers from them. Superman was first to catch
on to this and she subsequently revealed it to Red Arrow.

Vixen sought out her former Suicide Squad teammate Bronze Tiger to
discuss her situation, and subsequently admitted everything to the
League. Chairperson Black Canary instructed her to hand in her
credentials and removed her from the team. Afterward, Dinah discussed
with Mari the possibility of fixing the properties of the totem with the
assistance of Zatanna.

When Zatanna attempted to find the source of the problem, she saw a
mystic image of Vixen and Animal Man as puppets. When she tried to break
the spell, she was repelled by an unknown force. When Vixen attempted to
defeat the newly restored Amazo by absorbing all his stolen powers, she
became mysteriously weak. She then fell unconscious, with Amazo
bearing down on her.

When Zatanna and Red Tornado finally resolved the crisis, Vixen went to
seek Animal Man, since he had been affected by similar power
fluctuations, and left unable to tap into the powers of Earth-borne
animals. There, they were both sucked into the Tantu Totem, where, like
in Zatanna's vision, they were trapped in Anansi's net. Anansi, the
Trickster God of African folklore, revealed his powers and how being the
King of the Stories, he changed Buddy and Mari's personal histories
and sources of powers to test them.

In an attempt to keep them contained, Anansi restored their connection
to the Red, but altered the personal histories of the Leagues, to
prevent them from ever founding the JLA. However, Vixen escaped and
sought the new Leaguers to fight Anansi at their side. Although she
succeeded in gathering allies, they were still no match for Anansi's
power. Vixen held a gun to her totem, even though she knew that if the
totem was destroyed, they would all be destroyed. This forced Anansi to
return things to normal. Anansi then revealed to Mari that the whole
thing was actually a test. He explained that reality had been changed on
a fundamental level, and he needed someone to act as his agent against
an individual who could take advantage of the situation. He restored
Mari's powers, returned her and the JLA to their homes, and said that he
will one day call upon her.

Return of the Lion

Vixen: Return of the Lion is a limited series detailing Vixen's return
to her home village for the first time. In that series, Vixen found that
a local warlord named Aku Kwesi and his men had taken over several
Zambesi villages. It turned out that this is the same man who killed
Vixen's mother years ago. When Vixen confronted him, she found that he
has powers that rivaled, and possibly surpassed, hers. These powers were
based on advanced technology and chemicals that were given to him by
Intergang lieutenant Whisper A'Daire. The rest of the Justice League of
America went to Africa to render assistance, only to have several
members get doused with Kwesi's specially prepared Vodun zombie potion.
This allowed A'daire to take control of Superman and Black Canary and
pit them against the rest of the League.

Final Crisis

During the Final Crisis crossover event, Vixen was at the funeral of
Martian Manhunter, and later at the Hall of Justice when Empress, Sparx,
and Más y Menos came there seeking help after being attacked by Mirror
Master and Arthur Light. She later participated in a massive battle with
Darkseid's forces after he nearly conquered Earth with the Anti-Life
Equation.

After Final Crisis

In the aftermath of Final Crisis, the JLA was in tatters, with many of
its members having to leave. Mari and the remaining team members
enlisted the aid of Hardware after Kimiyo Hoshi went missing in her
search for Shadow Thief and Starbreaker. With help from
Superman's friend Icon, the team emerged victorious in the battle with
Starbreaker, with Mari having bright hopes for the future of the
team.

A short while later, Vixen broke her leg in a battle between the JLA and
the dangerous villain Prometheus with Hawkman's mace. While she and
the rest of the team tried to recover, they were ambushed by Despero,
who sought to destroy the weakened League. The JLA eventually defeated
Despero, only to be informed by Zatanna of the horrific events of
Blackest Night taking effect across the globe. After the Black
Lanterns attacked, Vixen told Kimiyo that she was taking a leave
of absence from the team in order to recover from her injuries.

According to writer James Robinson, Vixen was initially intended to have
a significantly different exit from the team. According to him, issue
#41 of Justice League of America was supposed to have Mari returning
to Africa in order to help defend the continent in the wake of Freedom
Beast's murder in Cry for Justice, eventually establishing a team of
African superheroes known as the Justice League of Africa.

Despite no longer working with the League, Vixen was one of the heroes
hunting down Maxwell Lord at the start of Justice League: Generation
Lost, and was presumably mind-wiped by him along with most of the
Earth's population. She and Black Canary later traveled to San Francisco
in order to help Zatanna capture a group of humans who had been
transformed into Were-Hyenas.

Sometime after her resignation from the JLA, Vixen traveled to the
rundown neighborhood of Liberty Hill in order to recruit Tattooed Man
for a new team of heroes she is putting together. However, Vixen
discovered that a group of gang bangers who had formerly worked under
Tattooed Man had taken control of the community and made a fortune for
themselves through crime. Mistakenly believing that Tattooed Man was
responsible for the acts of violence committed by his former thugs,
Vixen rescinded her offer and attacked him. After a brutal fight,
Vixen willingly surrendered and agreed to leave and let Tattooed Man
take care of his neighborhood in his own way.

The New 52

In The New 52 (a reboot of the  universe), Vixen was
recruited as part of the new Justice League International. Her
tenure with the team proved short, since she was injured in an explosion
and rendered comatose. Her old friend David Zavimbe later joined the
team in her honor as Batwing.

After the JLI disbanded, Vixen was seen as one of Cyborg's new recruits
for the main Justice League roster.


Powers and abilities

Vixen possesses the innate ability to make direct contact with the
Earth's morphogenetic field, which is sometimes known as the "Red". This
contact with the "Red" allows to draw upon the abilities of any animal
that has ever lived on the planet. By simply focusing on a specific
animal, she can draw its talent directly from the morphogenetic field
and mimic its abilities, thus giving herself a variety of superhuman
powers.

Vixen's connection to the "Red" is so deep that she can use the
abilities of multiple animals, once holding onto the morphogenetic
traits of an entire forest. Her abilities have allowed her to
channel the powers of extinct animals (such as the saber-toothed tiger
and the Triceratops), domesticated animals (like the Doberman Pinscher),
and even mystical beasts (like dragons). Her powers even allow her
to twist some animal abilities, like when she used the bio-luminescence
of a Marine hatchet fish and an Angler fish to produce light from her
hand and to create a laser-like beam from her head.

Vixen wears a mystic artifact called the Tantu Totem, a fox-head shaped
talisman given to her ancestors by the African trickster god Anansi. It
was previously thought that the totem was the source of her powers but
later stories, have shown that it merely prevents the
morphogenetic field from overwhelming her mind. It was once assumed that
the totem increased her range for mimicking animals as she has been seen
taking on the traits of animals from across the world. However this
limit has been removed since The New 52. The full capability of the
totem is unknown but Vixen once used the magic of the totem to heal
bruises and wounds within seconds by simply touching it. The totem
is thus far absent from her uniform and she has been seen taking on the
traits of animals that were not within her vicinity.

Vixen's claws/nails are particularly sharp and tough, enabling her to
rend through a variety of substances, such as fabric, wood, cinder block
and even soft metals with ease. Her claws are magically enhanced and
have drawn blood from individuals who are considered highly resistance
to damage or near invulnerable like Geo-Force, Despero, and Pre-Crisis
Superman.

Occasionally, she been known to physically transform into animals—for
example, she has shapeshifted into a gray wolf, a great horned owl, and
a cougar. Vixen can also assume a hybrid form, in which she
maintains a humanoid form but with certain animal adaptations, like when
she took on the gills, fins, and lack of eyes of a blind cavefish in
JSA Classified and later shapeshifted into a humanoid wolf (retaining
the cave fish's blindness).

While the full extent of Vixen's control over the morphogenetic field is
unknown, she has on occasions drawn pure energy from it and displayed
this energy as a force field and energy claws. While in cooperation
with Animal Man and the woman known as "Tristess", she helped to create
an entire universe.

Vixen also has the ability to communicate with animals and can override
the natural predator/prey instinct found in most wild animals. One
apparent drawback of Vixen's powers is that she is not always able to
control the inputs from the morphogenetic field. Sometimes, she has
absorbed unwanted animal behavior, such as instinctive rage or killing
frenzy. The longer she stays in contact with the morphogenetic field,
the less human and more animal she seems to become.

It is unknown what would happen if Vixen tried to use her magical
abilities on an alien animal, or if she would gain access to the
morphogenetic field of another planet. Though it should be noted that
while assisting Hawk girl during a mission on a distant planet, she was
able to access her abilities. During the time when Vixen was mimicking
human abilities she was able to mimic the extraterrestrial abilities of
Superman. This might indicate that she is able to mimic the abilities of
aliens as long as she is aware of them.

After losing the totem Vixen was forced to tap into the human template
as a way to purge herself of pure animalistic sensations and regain her
humanity. Afterwards, Vixen is briefly left by the god Anansi with a
crippled connection with the morphogenetic field, unable to reach any
animal except the human animal. In this state she shows the ability to
mimic metahuman powers, such as Jay Garrick's speed, Geo-Force's
earth-based powers, and Black Lightning's elemental control, as well as
the Kryptonian superpowers of Superman, an extraterrestrial. Her
abilities are not only limited to that of metahumans, as she was able to
duplicate Red Arrow's archery skills and even Green Lantern's ring in a
recent issue of Justice League of America, suggesting that she has
gained powers similar to those of Amazo.

It is revealed that this is actually trickery on the part of Anansi.
Upon confronting him within the Tantu Totem, Vixen learns the truth
about her powers: For unknown reasons, Anansi has made the Tantu Totem
his current home. Vixen's family are custodians and guardians of the
totem, which they have passed down through the generations. While Mari
doesn't need to be wearing the totem to use her powers, she is expected
to keep it safe for Anansi. Anansi restores Vixen's original animal
powers, then, after testing her abilities as a hero, he states that she
is his "champion".


Other versions

Flashpoint

In the alternate timeline of the Flashpoint event, Vixen is a member
of Wonder Woman's Furies and one of the former lovers of industrialist
Oliver Queen. Vixen and Oliver have a daughter who tries to
assassinate her father, but is killed by his security team.

Earth-23

An alternate version of Vixen is shown as part of the Justice League of
Earth-23, a world in which black superheroes hold prominence in the
superhero community.

Justice League Beyond

Vixen appears in a flashback in an issue of Justice League Beyond,
which is set in the AU. It is revealed that on the night John planned
to propose to her, Mari was killed after being impaled through the
stomach by Shadow Thief. In retaliation, John kills Shadow Thief in
revenge, resulting in his expulsion from the Green Lantern Corps and his
marriage to Hawkgirl.


In other media

Arrowverse

[Megalyn Echikunwoke as the titular character in the animated web-series
and in its sister television series Arrow.]

-   In January 2015, The CW announced that an animated web-series origin
    story centered on Vixen would be debuting on CW Seed in autumn 2015.
    It set in the same universe of sibling CW series Arrow and The
    Flash. The 6-part series is set in Detroit, Michigan; and
    if successful could lead to a live-action adaptation. Mari
    McCabe / Vixen was voiced by Megalyn Echikunwoke.
-   Echikunwoke reprised her role as Mari McCabe/Vixen in the Arrow
    season four episode "Taken". In Arrow, it is revealed that
    Mari has become an experienced vigilante with extensive knowledge
    of mysticism. Echikunwoke has said there is potential for her to
    have a live-action spin-off series.

Television

-   Vixen has made numerous appearances on Cartoon Network's Justice
    League Unlimited animated series voiced by Gina Torres. Vixen's
    powers aren't given any explicit origin; she merely needs to touch
    the totem on her necklace to activate them. She is apparently able
    to fly and can use animal abilities without any proximity to the
    actual creature, and at one point does so while on a
    different planet. She is commonly shown mimicking an elephant to
    increase her mass by several tons or to hit much tougher opponents.
    While her appearance does not change, a ghostly image of the animal
    she is mimicking is projected from the totem on her necklace, and
    temporarily appears in front of her. Also, it is shown that her
    claws are particularly sharp as she is able to cling to a wall and
    easily slice through concrete and metal with them. Vixen first
    appeared on the episode "Wake the Dead." Her first scene was on the
    catwalk, and she was later revealed to be Green Lantern's girlfriend
    (addressing him repeatedly throughout the series as "Boo"), to the
    jealousy of his former lover Shayera Hol, who still harbored strong
    and perhaps requited feelings for him. When she and John face
    Solomon Grundy, she uses the strength of an elephant to temporarily
    down Grundy, but is unable to stop Grundy's onslaught. John and
    Vixen are unable to stop Grundy but she proves herself when she
    manages to save John while also pushing him back. Though not a
    regular on the show, her brief exposure resulted in her becoming a
    fan favorite and Vixen was later featured in "Hunter's Moon," where
    she, along with Vigilante, came to terms with Shayera Hol's actions
    in the Thanagarian invasion of Earth. Despite their mutual affection
    for Stewart, they even established a friendship (more like a
    friendly rivalry) of sorts. In "Grudge Match," she and Shayera
    teamed up with Black Canary and Huntress in a forced
    (and unsuccessful) battle against the powerhouse Wonder Woman. As
    the series ended, John Stewart and Vixen were still a couple, with
    John stating that he would not be destiny's pawn, even though he met
    his own son with Shayera in the future. However, the durability of
    their relationship is called into question by the creators'
    post-show comments and the existence of a possible future son,
    Warhawk, between Shayera Hol and John Stewart. In her appearances,
    Vixen is seen using the strength of an elephant, the speed of a
    cheetah, the regeneration of a lizard, the color-vision of a
    salamander, the wall-crawling of a spider, the kick of a donkey, the
    constriction of an anaconda, and the electric shock of an
    electric eel.

[Vixen as she appears in Batman: The Brave and the Bold.]

-   Vixen appears in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold episode
    "Gorillas in Our Midst!" voiced by Cree Summer. This incarnation of
    Vixen wears an outfit similar to her modern JLA costume, but with
    long black boots and gloves. Batman requests her help when Gorilla
    Grodd replaces the human population with gorillas. She appears to
    have a relationship with B'wana Beast. She helps B'wana Beast stop a
    jewelry store robbery by Killer Moth, using the kick of a kangaroo
    to knock him out. She later confronts B'wana Beast to talk about
    their relationship, but is cut off by Gorilla Grodd's invasion
    of Gotham. She uses a hawk's ability to fly to confront Grodd's
    aerial assault, but is netted by one of Monsieur Mallah's missiles.
    She's saved by B'wana Beast's snake/pigeon hybrid and soon escapes
    taking the charge of a rhino to plow through apes. Vixen is soon
    stopped by Gorilla Boss and knocked out by Gorilla Grodd's
    electrical gauntlet. Her Tantu totem is taken away by the gorillas
    and she and B'wana Beast are locked up in the Gotham Zoo, where
    B'wana Beast tells her she should just leave a "D-list" superhero
    and boyfriend like him and find someone better. They are soon joined
    by Batman and Detective Chimp, the latter beginning to hit on her
    before being combined with a bee by B'wana Beast's powers to help
    them escape, also helping regain her totem. She uses the agility and
    speed of a cheetah to fight Gorilla Boss, who captures her, but
    shocks him when he's distracted by B'wana Beast and his
    crocodile/ostrich hybrid with an electric eel's electricity. She
    later knocks out Gorilla Boss with the strength of an ant. In the
    end, Gorilla Grodd and his army are defeated, and Batman and
    Detective Chimp leave, allowing Vixen and B'wana Beast to talk about
    their relationship. B'wana Beast tells her he knows he's not the
    perfect man, but she cuts him off with a marriage proposal, which he
    gladly accepts. In "The Siege of Starro!", Vixen is one of the many
    heroes taken under the control of Starro, and B'wana Beast
    desperately tries to save her. After she is freed from the Starro
    parasite's control, she notices B'wana's absence. After B'wana
    sacrifices himself to defeat Starro, she is seen grieving at
    his funeral.
-   In Teen Titans Go!_ episode "You're Fired!", Vixen is one of the
    animal-powered heroes auditioning to replace Beast Boy.

Film

-   An alternate version of Vixen named Vamp appears as a member of the
    Crime Syndicate of America in Justice League: Crisis on Two
    Earths. Unlike her counterpart, Vamp actually transforms into
    different kinds of animals rather than just taking on their
    traits. She was seen taking the form of a lion, a snake, and
    a bear. Her powers are somewhat similar to Beast Boy's powers, where
    she is brown in all her forms and has gold protrusions coming from
    her eyebrows. A notable fact about Vamp's shape-shifting abilities
    is that she takes on the form of a male lion (having the mane
    of one).

Video games

-   Vixen appeared in the video game  Universe Online.
-   Vixen appears as a playable character in the portable version of
    Lego Batman 2:  Super Heroes.
-   Vixen appears as a playable character via DLC in Lego Batman 3:
    Beyond Gotham.

