VRIL DOX, also known as BRAINIAC 2, is a fictional character published
by . He first appeared in Superman #167, (February 1964), and
was created by Edmond Hamilton, Cary Bates, and Curt Swan.


Publication history

He is the heir of Brainiac, one of Superman's greatest foes. He is an
ancestor of Querl Dox, Brainiac 5 of the Legion of Super-Heroes. Vril
Dox first appeared in Superman #167 (February 1964), by Edmond
Hamilton, Cary Bates, and Curt Swan, in a story entitled "The Deadly
Duo! - The Team of Luthor and Brainiac!". He was later resurrected in
Invasion!_ #1 (January 1989), by Keith Giffen, Bill Mantlo, and Todd
McFarlane. However, rather than being the adopted son of Brainiac, due
to changes in Post-Crisis continuity, he is now a clone of Brainiac.

He went on to star in L.E.G.I.O.N. '89 (February 1989) through
L.E.G.I.O.N. '94 (September 1994) by Keith Giffen, Alan Grant, and Barry
Kitson. He returned in the follow-up series R.E.B.E.L.S. '94 (October
1994) through R.E.B.E.L.S. '96 (March 1996) by Tom Peyer and Arnie
Jorgensen, and the subsequent series R.E.B.E.L.S. (2009-2011).


Fictional character biography

Silver Age

Vril Dox was a young Coluan who was adopted by the Computer Tyrants of
Colu and declared Brainiac's son. He escaped and led a rebellion against
the Computer Tyrants. He later appeared briefly in the Secrets of
the Legion of Super-Heroes mini-series. His descendants (who had
inherited long Coluan life spans) were his son, Pran Dox (Brainiac
Three) grandson Kajz Dox (Brainiac Four) and ultimately, Querl Dox,
Brainiac Five of the Legion of Super Heroes.

Post-Crisis

Invasion!_

Vril Dox II is a now a clone of Vril Dox (Brainiac), rather than his
adopted son, as he is created by Vril Dox himself. He is still regarded
as Brainiac's "heir", as he has inherited his pater familias' high
intelligence and extreme Machiavellian ethics.

L.E.G.I.O.N. '89-94

Vril Dox is the founder of the interplanetary police force Licensed
Extra Governmental Interstellar Operatives Network (abbreviated as
L.E.G.I.O.N., an acronym suggested by Strata but accepted by Dox). It
was founded through outright murder when Vril and his allies destroyed a
criminal drug ring. Chief Dox tries to manipulate everyone he came
across, not generally accepting when they did not follow his plans. He
manages to gain control of the bounty-hunter Lobo. This is partly by
out-smarting and out-fighting Lobo and taking advantage of the bounty
hunter's simple ethics; that he never breaks his word.

Vril leads the Earth's heroes in the 1992 Annual crossover, they travel
to the moon and defeat the Eclipso entity.

R.E.B.E.L.S. '94-96

Vril had a son named Lyrl Dox (Brainiac 3) who rebelled and took over
his organization. Vril later regains control of L.E.G.I.O.N by bartering
with the demonic entity 'Neron'. The deal is for the soul of one of his
unborn offspring. After the cancellation of the title he would only
occasionally appear in the more cosmic U titles. For example, he
appears in the 2004 Adam Strange mini-series, using robotic soldiers to
hunt Strange. Dox, now missing his hair, incorrectly believes Rann had
been destroyed at the hands of Strange. Dox's forces assist in the
limited series "Infinite Crisis".

R.E.B.E.L.S. (2009)

A new 2009 series features Starro The Conqueror taking control of a now
completely automated L.E.G.I.O.N. Dox, along with his old compatriot,
Strata, must form a new team to regain his former status. During the
Blackest Night crossover, Dox comes into contact with the mother of his
son, who had recently been killed by L.E.G.I.O.N. drones, and was
subsequently revived as a Black Lantern. Dox was also in an area in
which a Sinestro Corps member was murdered by another Black Lantern.
When the ring started to search for a new host, it selected Dox, making
him a member of the Sinestro Corps. However, not even the power of
the ring was a match for the Black Lanterns, forcing Dox to teleport
them to Starro's homeworld, despite the fact that his son, Lyrl (who had
recently had his intelligence restored by the warlord) was there also.
Soon after, the ring rejected Dox, who had repeatedly refused Sinestro's
mandate that all members of the Sinestro Corps were to gather at
Korugar, and declared that he had been discharged from the Corps.

R.E.B.E.L.S. helped to save the Vega system and several galaxies by
defeating Starro the Conqueror. The plight of Rann's people was soon
resolved by Vril Dox, seeking to restore his reputation after Starro the
Conqueror stole L.E.G.I.O.N. from him and used it to enslave its client
worlds. Dox Zeta-beamed Rann into the Vega system, in the orbit
previously held by the now destroyed planet Tamaran, and proceeded to
terraform Rann and make it suitable to sustain life again.

The restoration of the planet Rann wasn't Dox's only reason for
relocating it into the Vega system. First, by putting Rann into
Tamaran's orbit, it restored the gravitional balance to the Vega system,
which had been thrown off by Tamaran's destruction. Secondly, in
exchange for restoring their planet, the people of Rann agreed to let
Dox rebuild L.E.G.I.O.N. headquarters on Rann.

Tamaranian refugees, led by Blackfire, attacked Rann believing that
since the planet was in Tamaran's orbit they had claim to it. The
violence was ended when Vril Dox, who was off-world at the start of the
conflict, arrived with Thanagarian warships and stopped the fighting
without bloodshed on either side. As it turned out, Dox was off-world
negotiating an official end to the Rann-Thanagar War, using Rann's
new-found distance from Thanagar and change in leadership on both sides
as leverage.

Dox then went on to mediate the tension between the Rannians and the
Tamaranians by proposing that the Tamaranians live on Rann's uninhabited
southern continent.

Dox, Adam Strange and other senior commanders of L.E.G.I.O.N. also
ensured peace with the Green Lantern Corps, also helped create an
alliance between Rannians, Tamaranians and L.E.G.I.O.N. after defeating
Starro the Conqueror, ensuring security for Rann, the Vega System and
the galaxy. With Dox becoming consort to Blackfire.

The New 52

In Superman Annual Vol 3 #2 Vril Dox is shown to be Brainiac's
original identity.

 You

He will appear in the new digital first comic book "Adventures of
Supergirl" series in January 24, 2016 1.


Other versions

Vril is visited by the time traveling entity named Waverider, a man on a
mission to see which modern day heroic figure might become a tyrant in
ten year's time. This is part of the "Armageddon 2001" crossover. Vril
captures Waverider and does see his future. Due to power gained by ten
years of Waverider's capture, Vril has become a tyrant, killing many
innocents. Horrified at this, Vril lets Waverider go so this future will
not come to pass.


In other media

Video games

-   Vril Dox was set to appear as a playable character on the cancelled
    Ocean Software Lobo fighting game for the Super Nintendo
    Entertainment System and the Sega Genesis.
-   According to the first issue of the  Universe Online Legends
    comic, Vril Dox is the Brainiac who serves as the primary antagonist
    in  Universe Online.

