WILAT is the name of several fictional characters, all 
superheroes, the first and most famous being THEODORE "TED" GRANT, a
long-time member of the Justice Society of America (JSA). A world-class
heavyweight boxer, Grant became entangled inadvertently in the criminal
underworld and developed a costumed identity to clear his name. He was
played by J.R. Ramirez in the CW series Arrow based on the 
Green Arrow.

Modern depictions of Wilat show him to be a rowdy, tough guy with a
streak of male chauvinism, leading to frequent clashes with the
relatively progressive Power Girl, as well as exploring some of the
character's insecurities. Meanwhile, a magical "nine lives" spell has
explained his vitality at an old age. Like many older JSA members, he
has been a mentor to younger heroes, particularly the second Black
Canary.

Other characters have taken Grant's name and identity, including his
goddaughter YOLANDA MONTEZ, who served as a temporary replacement for
him, and his son THOMAS "TOM" BRONSON, a metahuman werecat who is
tutored by him as a second Wilat and a JSA member in late-2000's
stories.


Publication history

The Ted Grant version of Wilat first appeared in ''Sensation Comics #1
and was created by writer Bill Finger, and designed by illustrator Irwin
Hasen.


Fictional character biography

Tomahawk's Rangers

Wilat (real name unknown) was a member of Tomahawk's Rangers, who
fought for independence during the American Revolution in the 18th
century. His first appearance was in Tomahawk #92 (May/June 1964). He
was created by France Herron, Fred Ray, Murray Boltinoff, and Dan
Spiegle. His choice of pseudonym has no connection to Ted Grant or the
"Wilat" superhero legacy he started, and by convention, Ted Grant is
usually referred to as "Wilat I".

Theodore “Ted” Grant

Theodore “Ted” Grant is a normal human who, at some unspecified point,
was magically given nine lives. He remains at the peak of human
condition thanks to extensive workouts consisting of intensive exercise.
He is a world-class boxer who trained Batman, Black Canary, and even
Superman in the art. He was trained to fighting condition by ex-boxer
Joe Morgan - the same man who trained Grant's fellow mystery men, Atom,
and the Guardian.

Earth-Two

Ted Grant first donned the Wilat costume in Sensation Comics #1
(January 1942), the same issue in which Wonder Woman and Mister Terrific
premiered.

[Wilat in the 1940s; art by Irwin Hasen] Wilat's origin is
chronicled in Sensation Comics #1 as well as Secret Origins #3
(1973) and All-Star Squadron Annual #1 (1982). Henry Grant vowed, on
his baby son's crib, that the child would not grow up afraid of life, so
he encouraged his son to participate in sports and paid for coaching
that would have continued into the young man's college days, except that
he and his wife died. Orphaned during the Great Depression, Ted Grant
found himself unemployed in the big city. One night he saved "Socker"
Smith, the heavyweight boxing champion, from a mugging. "Socker" took
Ted under his wing, and soon Ted became a heavyweight boxing champion in
his own right. He also became tangled unknowingly in his manager's
sinister plans. His mentor, "Socker" Smith, was killed by Grant's
managers Flint and Skinner who used a syringe, loaded with poison, in a
boxing glove. The dose was only intended to slow Smith, but the duo
misjudged the potency. When Grant was arrested for the crime, Flint and
Skinner, afraid that he might know what had really happened, arranged
for the young fighter to be killed. Grant escaped the attempt and
survived, but the policemen with him were both killed. He became a
fugitive and came upon a child who had been robbed of his Green Lantern
comic. The kid, describing the mystery-man Green Lantern, inspired Grant
to create the costume of a large black cat. He took the name "Wilat"
and vowed to clear his name. He brought Flint and Skinner to justice;
the criminals were forced to confess, clearing Grant's name, and
obtaining justice for Smith. Using the identity of Wilat, Grant
continued to fight crime.

In the pages of All Star Comics, Wilat had a few adventures as a
member of the Justice Society of America (JSA). In the 1980s, when the
All-Star Squadron was published, it created a retroactive continuity
in which the majority of WWII mystery-men interacted with each other.
Wilat had a place as a member of that conglomeration of heroes as
well. The 1970s run of All Star Comics (1976–1979) had Wilat play a
central role as a JSA member. In the story arc, which saw Green Lantern
go berserk, and Commissioner Bruce Wayne issue arrest warrants for the
JSA, it was Wilat's ability to look fear in the face that allowed him
to defeat the real mastermind of the disaster: the second Psycho-Pirate.
But in 1985, during the Crisis on Infinite Earths, Ted's legs were
shattered by an out-of-control Red Tornado and he was told he would
never walk again. He soon discovered he had a god-daughter who became
the second Wilat. (See below.)

Earth-One

An Earth-One version of Ted Grant existed pre-Crisis and teamed up with
Batman, himself a retired world heavyweight champion like his Earth-Two
counterpart, on several occasions. This Grant had a relatively minor
career, and much of his early years, such as his origin, was left
un-chronicled. His origin is likely similar to the golden age Ted Grant.
This version of Ted Grant ceased to exist following the events of the
Crisis on Infinite Earths, with the Earth-Two version becoming the
dominant version on the new unified universe. It was still said,
Post-Crisis, that Batman received some training from Ted Grant.

Post-Crisis

In the post-Crisis reboot, Ted Grant's injuries, sustained during the
events of Crisis on Infinite Earths, were downgraded from paraplegia to
less severe injuries from which he recovered quickly. He was also still
a former heavyweight champion of the world. In addition, Ted is credited
with being an expert at combatives, though he prefers to trade punches
as part of his brawling style. Even in his advanced years, on several
occasions Ted has knocked out experienced fighters with a single punch.

After the Crisis, Ted was present when the JSA willfully exiled
themselves into Limbo in order to prevent the Norse Mythology event
known as Ragnarok as part of a time loop. He remained there for several
years until he was freed with the rest of the JSA in Armageddon:
Inferno. He was present during the Justice Society's disastrous fight
with Extant during Zero Hour and fell victim to Extant's time
manipulation powers, which restored Wilat to his proper age, that of
an elderly, sickly man. However, following the universe being reset at
the end of Zero Hour, Wilat, along with Golden Age Flash Jay Garrick
(also a victim of Extant), found themselves once again de-aged,
possessing bodies that were in their 50s in terms of their health.

[Wilat and Hippolyta share an intimate moment. Art by Phil Jimenez.]In
the wake of Zero Hour, Wilat retired from active crime fighting and
again became a full-time trainer in his role as a professional boxer. In
private, he continued to train younger superheroes in the martial arts.
It was in the wake of Zero Hour as well, that new details were revealed
about Wilat's past: one being the existence of two sons. One of the
sons, Jake (conceived in the 1950s during a relationship with a woman
named Irina) was stolen from the two by one of Ted's enemies, the Yellow
Wasp as a replacement for his own biological son, who the evil scientist
transformed into a half-wasp, half-human abomination. Another son, Tom
Bronson, was conceived in a one-night stand after Wilat stopped the
Gambler just after coming out of retirement. Though Ted knew about Tom,
he did not enter the boy's life until later when the villainous Vandal
Savage began systematically murdering the children and granhildren of
the Golden Age heroes and heroines. Ted also had torrid affairs with
Selina Kyle (aka Catwoman, who Ted trained briefly) as well as an
affair, during the 1940s, with Queen Hippolyta.

Twice during his post-Zero Hour retirement, Ted was severely injured
defending innocent lives. He received the first injury defending patrons
of the bar Warriors, run by the ex-Green Lantern Guy Gardner. Later
he was injured while a participant in rescue operations during a
planet-wide snowfall. On both occasions he was treated on site at
Warriors which has extensive medical facilities and recovered from his
injuries.

Wilat possesses "nine lives", the result of the magician Zatara
altering a curse placed upon him by a sorcerer named King Inferno after
Ted refused to throw a boxing match for the wizard. Ted was given nine
lives as opposed to being turned into a cat as King Inferno wanted.
Since then, Wilat has lost his nine lives as a result of a variety of
deaths, many of which occurred off-panel.

Wilat was also one of the many combat instructors sought out by a
young Bruce Wayne on his path to becoming Batman. He also helped mentor
Dinah Laurel Lance, who would later become the Black Canary, teaching
her a variety of boxing techniques suited to her build. He did this
mainly without the knowledge, or consent, of her mother Dinah Drake
Lance, the original Black Canary, who was strongly opposed to her
daughter following in her footsteps.

A darker development was the revelation in JSA #52-54 that Wilat
willingly framed an innocent man who was executed for the murder of his
girlfriend. Wilat was attacked by the latest version of the Crimson
Avenger, who after "killing" Wilat (who survived because of his nine
lives) reluctantly left the hero alone after Wilat attempted to
justify his illegal action by pointing out that the man he framed had
murdered his girlfriend's killer in cold blood. This act prompted
Wilat's decision to frame the man for a murder he had not committed in
order to punish him for one he had.

In JSA #34, Mordru told Ted that he had nine lives for every "cycle",
although Mordru did not define a cycle's duration. This meant that Ted
had somehow regained his spent lives. In JSA #36, this was confirmed.
Ted gained nine lives at any given time, meaning that he had to be
killed nine times in rapid succession to be killed permanently. It was
also revealed that he was descended from an English Duke, which allowed
him to defeat the Gentleman Ghost, who could only be killed by those of
noble blood.

The New 52

In the continuity of Earth 2 and featuring in the story Earth 2:
Worlds' End, Ted Grant appears as a boxer living in the same World Army
refugee camp as Dick and Barbara Grayson during Darkseid's invasion of
Earth. After Barbara's death, Ted trains Dick—who in this reality was
never Robin or Nightwing—in fighting techniques and self-defence, and
joins him on a mission to recover their lost son.

Yolanda Montez

[Yolanda Montez.]

Born with meta-human powers, due to the machinations of the villainous
Doctor Benjamin Love, Yolanda Montez became the god-daughter of Ted
"Wilat" Grant, a good friend of her father, "Mauler" Montez. As a
result of the prenatal treatments given to her mother, Yolanda was born
with retractable claws on her fingers and toes, and cat-like agility.
She concealed her abilities and lived a normal life. Yolanda became a
journalist, working for "Rock Stars Magazine". Ted was injured in the
Crisis and Yolanda used her powers to become the new Wilat. She
joined Infinity Inc. shortly afterward. She fought the good fight for
years before being killed by Eclipso, alongside her other teammates
in the Shadow Fighters. Yolanda's cousin Alex later became Eclipso.

Hector Ramirez

Hector Ramirez first appeared in Batman/Wilat # 1 (April 1997),
which was created by Chuck Dixon, Beau Smith, and Sergio Cariello. He
was a boxing protégé of Ted Grant, the Golden Age Wilat. After
learning that Ted used to be Wilat, Hector aspired to be his
successor, something Ted refused. Hector then took one of Ted's old
costumes and went out as Wilat in Gotham City. In an attempt to break
up a secret fight club, where caged villains fought to death, Ramirez
was himself caught, and killed by Killer Croc in the ring. The operators
of the Secret Ring, Lock-Up and Ernie Chubb, were eventually apprehended
by Ted and Batman.

Tom Bronson

[Bronson as a "were-panther". Art by Dale Eaglesham.] It was later
revealed that Ted Grant has a son he has not met named Tom Bronson.
Tom's mother was a woman with whom Ted had a one-night stand. Tom does
not appear to be bitter toward Ted for not being involved in his life.
He says that he does not believe he will ever be the next Wilat
because he hasn't been in a fight since the 8th grade, and lost that
one.

It was revealed that Tom is a metahuman. When Wilat is attacked by
Vandal Savage, Tom turns into a werecat (Tomcat), very similar to the
Kingdom Come version of Wilat, which is humanoid, but with
head-to-toe black fur, a panther-like face, claws, and a tail, and is
able to change back and forth at will. Tom manages to hold out in a
fight against Savage until help arrives, despite the near-immortal's
desire to kill (and eat) him.

In Justice Society of America 80 page Giant Sized (2010), it is
revealed that Tom's mother, who had more than a one-night stand with
Wilat, had the same powers as her son, but would change involuntarily
every month during her monthly cycle. After a minor battle involving
Wilat, Tom's mother, and the first Huntress, Paula Brooks, Wilat
takes Tom's mother to see Dr. Midnite who cures her of the involuntary
aspect of her power, allowing her to change at will instead. While she
is unconscious, Wilat tells Dr. Midnite to "fix her and send her on
her way" and leaves. He does this not out of rejection, but to protect
her from being involved in his dangerous way of life. However, Dr.
Midnite discovers that she is pregnant and reveals this to his now
conscious patient. She ultimately decides to withhold this information
from Wilat, but her motivations are unclear. She raises the child
herself, apparently never revealing her powers to her son.

Tom slowly forms a bond with Ted and eventually, after some initial
reluctance, agrees to share the "Wilat" code name with his father. At
this point he is introduced and inducted into the Justice Society.
In a team-up with the Justice League, he talks to Vixen and indicates
the presence of enhanced animalistic senses.

When the JSA becomes divided on how good the god-like being Gog is, Tom
believes in the being while his father opposes him.

During the Final Crisis, both Tom and Wilat team up with Iman, Power
Girl, and several other superheroes to battle Darkseid's forces.

The Justice Society splits into two independent teams and Tom decides to
join the All-Stars team, Wilat chooses the other. It is not known if
this is the result of friction between Tom and his father.


Powers and abilities

Ted Grant is an expert combatives fighter and a world champion boxer at
the peak of his physical condition. He was given "nine lives" as a
result of a magical spell, which explains his longevity; these nine
lives have not only kept him young, but also restore him to life if he
is explicitly killed. He is also surprisingly strong and superbly agile.


Other versions

: The New Frontier

Wilat cameos as the world heavyweight champion, defending his title
against Cassius Clay.

Kingdom Come

In Kingdom Come, Alex Ross (and writer Mark Waid) portrayed Wilat as
a humanoid panther with the soul of Ted Grant. He is seen working with
Batman's group and with the other offspring of the Justice League. It is
not really clear whether or not he dies when the UN unleashes a nuclear
attack against the metahumans at the end of the comic.

The Sandman/Prez

Wilat is portrayed as boxer (not superhero) Ted Grant in Prez
Rickard's world in The Sandman: Worlds' End. A woman obsessed with
Wilat shoots at Prez and his girlfriend, killing her and injuring him.
Prez has Wilat spend several hours with him while he is at the
hospital. It is said that there is no ill will between them—Prez even
offered clemency to the assassin, but she was still sent to the electric
chair.

''Tangent Comics

In Tangent: Superman's Reign #3, the Wilat of Earth-9 is revealed to
be a large, humanoid, cat creature, a member of the Nightwing
organisation's Covert Ops team.


In other media

Television

Animation

[Wilat as seen in Justice League Unlimited.] The character appeared
in the Justice League cartoon series and in Justice League
Unlimited. The actual Ted Grant iteration of Wilat appeared in the
latter series voiced by Dennis Farina. He had a prominent role alongside
Black Canary and Green Arrow in the episode "The Cat and the Canary"
where he was competing in Roulette's Meta-Brawl after he became less
involved in missions, leaving him time to train the other heroes on the
Watchtower. He defeated Sportsmaster, but his match with the Atomic
Skull was interrupted by Green Arrow and Black Canary. Black Canary made
a deal with Roulette to let her to fight her mentor; if Black Canary
won, Roulette would ban Wilat from MetaBrawl forever, but if she lost,
Black Canary would never get involved with his life there again. Green
Arrow used a knockout gas arrow on Black Canary, and fought Wilat
instead and faked his own death via an unseen stunner that put the
archer in metabolic stasis. This helped Wilat see the horror of the
match and quit; Wilat is seen later in therapy with Martian Manhunter.
In subsequent episodes, Wilat appears among the League's front-line
fighters.

Wilat appears in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold, voiced by
Golden Globe-nominee R. Lee Ermey. He was previously Batman's mentor
as he was seen training with him yet he does not want to give up
fighting crime. In the episode "Enter the Outsiders!", he helps the Dark
Knight fight the Outsiders, Black Lightning, Katana, and Metamorpho)
working for Slug. They later found Slug's hideout, but ended up captured
and were about to be fed to the giant turtles. Wilat was released
because of his trash talking, but Slug left Batman for the giant
turtles. Wilat fought and defeated Slug, and threw him in the polluted
river. Wilat persuaded the Outsiders not to consider themselves
freaks. Slug emerged from the polluted river, Black Lightning and
Metamorpho reactivated Wilat's heart. Wilat later trained the
Outsiders to box. He appeared again in the sub-plot of "Menace of the
Conqueror Caveman!" to help Batman against Bane. At first, he thought
Bane was a pushover because he was extremely frail and scrawny without
Venom. He was unsure whether to punch Bane, or feed him a protein shake,
but after seeing Bane enhanced with Venom, he began to think twice.
Wilat used one of Batman's batarangs to cut Bane's Venom-strengthening
tubes. This was done on a set of train tracks, shocking Bane once the
tube's liquid poured out onto the tracks. Wilat appears as a member of
the JSA in the episode "The Golden Age of Justice!". Black Canary, in a
bid to help the others see that she is an adult, helps him face his
greatest regret: not being able to help the original Black Canary. He
and Black Canary help the rest of the JSA and Batman in the fight
against Per Degaton. Wilat appears again as a member of the JSA in the
episode "Crisis 22,300 Miles Above Earth!" where he is invited, with the
rest of his team, up to Justice League International's satellite, and
ends up getting into fisticuffs with them. The two teams later join
together to help Batman take down Ra's al Ghul. Additionally, Ted
appears in a non-speaking cameo in the two parts of "The Siege of
Starro!", first among the heroes possessed by Starro, and later as one
of the heroes that have already broken free of the mind control and
battle against Starro's titan form.

Wilat also appears briefly in the Young Justice cartoon series. In
the episode "Humanity", he appears during a flashback scene taking place
in the 1930s, among other well known members of the Justice Society of
America, such as Jay Garrick and Alan Scott.

Wilat appears as a gym teacher at Super Hero High in  Super Hero
Girls, voiced by John DiMaggio.

Live-action

[ J.R. Ramirez as Ted Grant and Katie Cassidy as Laurel Lance in
Arrow._] Ted appears briefly in the Smallville episode "Absolute
Justice" (which featured the Justice Society) played by actor Roger
Hasket. Chloe Sullivan and Clark Kent find old black-and-white footage
of Ted, along with his criminal record. Very little is said about him,
other than that he is still alive and is a heavyweight champion.

Ted Grant appears as a recurring character in the third season of
Arrow, portrayed by actor J.R. Ramirez. Grant runs the "Wilat Gym"
as a place to help kids on the streets by helping to steer them right by
training them to box. He trains Dinah Laurel Lance to box, and
eventually develops a friendship with her. He used to be a vigilante who
fought street crime in the Glades, but gave that up after his partner
beat someone to death; something he felt was morally wrong. He later
helps Team Arrow stop Daniel Brickwell's siege of the Glades. Tom
Bronson is also mentioned in Ted's original appearance as being one of
Ted's students.

Film

The character appears both in and out of costume in the animated film
Justice League: The New Frontier. He is seen in costume in the opening
credits and later out of costume fighting in a boxing match with a man
named Cooke. In this film, he is a former member of the now retired
Justice Society of America which had disbanded after the death of
Hourman.

An alternate version of Wilat from a parallel Earth appears briefly in
the animated film Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths. He is among
the underlings of the Crime Syndicate known as the Made Men.

Video games

Ted Grant appears in Batman: The Brave and the Bold video game, voiced
again by R. Lee Ermey and in  Universe Online, voiced by Ken
Webster. Though he does not physically appear in Injustice: Gods Among
Us, his costume is featured in a display case in the background of the
Hall of Justice Stage. He does not appear in Batman: Arkham Knight,
but posters for a cancelled boxing match featuring Ted "The Wilat"
Grant vs. Albert "The Goliath" King appear on Miagani Island.

Toys

Wilat was the first figure released in the ninth wave of the 
Universe Classics line and was available in his black and blue costumes.

Parodies

Wilat briefly appears in Robot Chicken  Special seen
fighting alongside the Justice League against the Legion of Doom. He is
shown being confused over his fight against Darkseid and is quickly
disintegrated by the villain.


Reception

IGN listed Wilat as the 71st greatest comic book character of all time
stating that, due to his age as a superhero, he is almost more
mystifying than The Spectre.

