WING HOW is a fictional character in the  universe. He is the
Asian sidekick and valet to the Crimson Avenger, one of the first
costumed heroes of the Golden Age of Comics. He bears more than a slight
resemblance to Kato, the sidekick of The Green Hornet. Wing first
appeared in Detective Comics #20 (October, 1938).


Fictional character background

Wing began as a uniformed chauffeur of the Crimson Avenger's alter ego
Lee Travis. A Chinese immigrant who moved to America to escape Japanese
persecution in the days leading up to World War II, Wing helps to
instill a social conscience in his employer. When the death of a fellow
reporter motivates Travis to become the Crimson Avenger, Wing assists
him in his fight against crime. Curiously, despite Wing's initial lack
of a costume, no one ever makes a connection between Travis' chauffeur
and the Crimson Avenger.

A few months after the Crimson Avenger abandons his cloak and fedora for
a more traditional superhero costume, Wing dons a matching yellow
costume and becomes his official sidekick. He serves as a member of
the Seven Soldiers of Victory (as the honorary "eighth Soldier") and the
All-Star Squadron. However, the Crimson Avenger frequently attempts to
dissuade Wing from this path, believing that the bright young man has a
better future ahead of him than running about in a costume fighting
madmen.

In Justice League of America #100 (August 1972), it is revealed that
Wing sacrificed his life to defeat the cosmic being known as the Nebula
Man, a creature who scatters the other Soldiers through time. While most
of the JLA and JSA travelled through time to find the members, the
Golden Age Green Lantern, Mister Terrific and the Golden Age Robin went
on a quest to discover the identity of the Unknown Soldier of Victory,
whose tomb lay in the mountains of Tibet, where the Seven Soldiers had
fallen after defeating the Nebula Man.

The New 52

In The New 52 timeline, a modernized version of Wing appears as a young
Asian American cameraman covering Solomon Grundy's rampage. His name
is later established as JAMES WING, and he is revealed to be working
with journalist Lee Travis (here an African American woman rather than a
white man) for the GBC.


Powers and abilities

Wing is skilled in martial arts, including judo and karate.

