CASSANDRA "CASSIE" SANDSMARK, a.k.a. WONDER GIRL, is a fictional 
Comics superheroine. Created by John Byrne, and first appearing in
Wonder Woman (vol. 2) #105 (January 1996), she is a sidekick of the
popular superhero Wonder Woman and also a prominent member of the
superhero group the Teen Titans.

When Cassie was first introduced in 1996 Wonder Woman comics, she was
the daughter of an archaeologist who discovered magical artifacts which
bestowed upon Cassie superpowers, with which she fought crime as Wonder
Girl. Later, Zeus, king of the Greek gods, grants her real powers. Later
revelations showed that Cassie was in fact a demigoddess and the
daughter of Zeus himself.

In 2011,  relaunched its books with a new continuity called The New
52, and one of its major continuity changes was to Wonder Woman,
establishing that she is a demigod and the daughter of Zeus. Cassie is
reintroduced in the pages of Teen Titans as a superpowered thief with
enchanted demonic bracelets; she is recruited into the Teen Titans
superhero group by Red Robin, the former protege of the superhero
Batman, and has no obvious connection to Wonder Woman. Later, her New 52
origin story reveals that she is Wonder Woman's niece and Zeus's
granddaughter. Her father is revealed as being a British super-soldier
named Lennox Sandsmark who is Wonder Woman's half-brother and himself a
son of Zeus. As before, Helen, Cassie's mother, is an archaeologist.


Publication history

Cassandra Sandsmark initially appears as a supporting cast member in
Wonder Woman._ She later appears as part of an ensemble in Young
Justice and Teen Titans. She appeared in supporting roles in 52,
Supergirl, and the 2006 relaunch of the Wonder Woman series. In
September 2007, she appeared in the six-issue limited series Wonder
Girl: Champion written by J. Torres and illustrated by Sanford
Greene and Nathan Massengill.


Fictional character biography

Cassandra is the third character to be called Wonder Girl, the second
being Donna Troy, following the earlier stories of a young Wonder Woman
using the name. Cassandra is the daughter of Dr. Helena Sandsmark, (an
archaeologist with whom Wonder Woman was working) and the Greek god
Zeus. During a fight with a Doomsday clone and another battle with
Decay, she created a costume and used magical accoutrements (the
sandals of Hermes and the gauntlet of Atlas) to help Wonder Woman, much
to her mother's horror. Cassandra later had the opportunity to ask Zeus
for a boon, and requested real superpowers. Zeus granted her request,
but gave Dr. Sandsmark the ability to deactivate them with the simple
touch of her hand upon Cassie. Dr. Sandsmark, however, reluctantly
accepted her daughter's wish to be a superhero and rarely if ever uses
this ability.

Young Justice

Cassie heavily idolized Donna Troy, the original Wonder Girl, and to
that effect wore a black wig over her natural blonde hair (it also
helped to conceal her identity). Donna gave Cassie the second costume
she wore as Wonder Girl, but Cassie was afraid to wear it lest it were
ruined. She has been trained by Artemis, the former "stand-in" Wonder
Woman. As Wonder Girl, Cassie joined Young Justice due to her
crush on Superboy. She became close friends with Arrowette, Secret, and
Empress. During her time with that group the dark god Oblivion caused
Wonder Woman's Wonder Dome palace to destroy Gateway City. Artemis
ordered Cassie to help with crowd control instead of wasting time
putting on her Wonder Girl disguise. Agreeing with her, Cassie revealed
her secret identity before news cameras for the first time in her
superhero career. Towards the end of the Young Justice series,
Cassie became the leader of the team, after beating Robin during an
election for command. Her secret identity was again publicly revealed
when the second Silver Swan attacked her at her high school.

Young Justice was disbanded after the events of Graduation
Day,Titans/Young Justice: Graduation Day (1999) a crossover with
Titans. During these events, Optitron offered to fund both the Titans
and Young Justice. Donna Troy was killed by a rogue Superman android,
leaving Cassie shaken and causing both teams to disband.

Teen Titans

Cassie later joined some former members of Young Justice in the newest
incarnation of the Teen Titans. Early on, she was gifted with a
lasso by Ares, the Greek god of war and frequent enemy of Wonder
Woman and the Amazons. Despite appearing similar to Wonder Woman's
lasso, Cassie's expels Zeus' lightning when used in anger. Over the
course of the series, Ares often appeared to Wonder Girl to warn her
about "the coming war". During her time with the Titans,
Cassie also developed a relationship with Superboy, whom she had
harbored feelings before and throughout Young Justice.

In "Titans Tomorrow", the Titans are thrown ten years into their
future, where they encountered future versions of themselves. In this
future, Cassie inherited the mantle of Wonder Woman after Diana was
killed during "the Crisis". She is also referred to as "Ares' champion",
and is in a relationship with Conner Kent (Superboy). It is not revealed
whether they are married or merely dating.

It was also during her Titans membership that she was revealed to be
Zeus' daughter, a fact both Zeus and her mother kept from her for most
of her life. Cassie was originally told by her mother that her
biological father had died. Wonder Woman knew about Cassie's link to
Zeus but chose to hide this from Cassie as well at the request of
Cassie's mother. In "The Insiders", she was beaten by Superboy
as a result of his possession by Lex Luthor; though she recovered,
Superboy secluded himself at the Kent farm in Smallville,
and there had seemed to be a strain on their relationship until the
events of Infinite Crisis.

Infinite Crisis

[Teen Titans Annual #1
Cover art by Ed Benes] During a battle against Brother Blood and a
handful of zombie Titans, she acknowledged that her powers were
fluctuating and sometimes disappearing altogether. Despite this,
Cassie attempted to help Superboy after he was beaten to near-death by
Superboy-Prime After saving him, Wonder Girl and the Titans
infiltrated a LexCorp laboratory to find a way to cure Superboy.
While the other Titans flew to Blüdhaven following an attack from the
Society, Cassie remained at Titans Tower to watch over Superboy. When he
awoke, the pair of them reconnected and remembered their past in Young
Justice, which seemed so much happier and easier. Conner then took
Cassie to Smallville, and, afraid that it would be their last night
together, they consummate their love.

Ares again appears to her and informed that the reason behind her
weakening power was Zeus taking back the powers he had granted to her as
he left the mortal plane. Ares then offered Cassie some of his power in
exchange for becoming his champion and acknowledging him as her
brother. She joins Superboy and Nightwing up north, with powers
returned, to assist in the assault on Lex Luthor's tower. Superboy
sacrificed his life to defeat Superboy-Prime and destroy the tower, and
died.

The Cult of Conner

Directly after Infinite Crisis, the Teen Titans fall apart. Cassie,
feeling abandoned by her best friends, leaves the Titans during the year
in which 52 takes place, following Robin's departure. Cassie becomes
involved in a cult heavily influenced by Kryptonian culture. She sets up
an altar in Titans Tower with Kryptonian crystals and a gold figure with
the Superman-insignia, which means "hope" in Kryptonian. Soon, Ralph
Dibny approaches her because someone defaced the grave of his wife Sue
with an upside down 'S' Shield, which in Kryptonian means
"resurrection".

About five days later, Cassie and her fellow cult members meet with
Ralph. Cassie mentions that it was another member, Dev-Em, who led her
to join. Cassie explains that the goal of the cult is to resurrect
Superboy. As a test of their process, they intend to resurrect Sue
Dibny. Cassie and Ralph attend a ceremony designed to resurrect Sue, but
Ralph grows suspicious and with the help of other superheroes, disrupts
the ceremony, destroying the Kryptonite which was essential to the
process. Cassie leaves with Dev-Em, blaming Ralph for destroying her
chances to resurrect Superboy. After stopping Weather Wizard in
Metropolis, Cassie meets Supernova and refers to him incorrectly as
Kon-El, who actually turns out to be Booster Gold in disguise.

One Year Later

During "One Year Later", Wonder Girl is seen attempting to stop Gemini
of the Brotherhood of Evil from escaping S.T.A.R. Labs with valuable
technology, revealing that she had been following the Brotherhood for
some time. She also sports a new costume influenced by that of the late
Superboy. She now wears a Golden Age Wonder Woman-themed t-shirt and
denim jeans.

She temporarily rejoins the team, under the suggestion of Cyborg so
that they may combine forces to defeat the Brotherhood of Evil. After
the Teen Titans and Doom Patrol defeat the Brotherhood of Evil, she
decides to rejoin the team permanently. When she goes to tell Robin of
her decision, she discovers his secretive and unsuccessful attempts to
bring back Superboy. Though obsessed with having Conner back, Cassie
reacts in horror and in an attempt to quell Robin's anger at Cassie, the
two kiss. For a while the two refused to talk about the incident beyond
coming to the agreement that it was a mistake, but they both have
discussed it with others. With her life in disarray, Cassie
has been having difficulty with her personal life, often having major
confrontations with her mother. Cassie has gained a new friendship with
the recently returned Supergirl, Kara Zor-El, who has shared with her in
mourning the loss of Superboy and Paradise Island.

Cassie was also still very furious at Wonder Woman following the events
of Infinite Crisis, due to her belief that Wonder Woman abandoned her
after Conner's death to play secret agent in a new civilian identity
that Batman created for her after Infinite Crisis. She was also not
pleased that Robin was aware of Diana's whereabouts during the year
after Infinite Crisis and did not inform her about it. Diana and Cassie
have not been able to discuss their past differences, leading to Cassie
to turn to Supergirl and the now resurrected Donna Troy instead for
emotional support dealing with Conner's death.

Following the resurrection of Jericho at the hands of Raven, Wonder Girl
and Robin request that Raven use the same ceremony to resurrect
Superboy. Raven calmly explains that is not possible, because Jericho's
resurrection was a special case: Jericho's soul was still on Earth,
imprisoned inside of a computer disk, while Conner's has moved on to the
afterlife. In the middle of this conversation with Robin and Raven,
Wonder Girl is captured by Deathstroke's villainous Titans East after an
attack by Inertia and Match. Each member of Titans East has been
recruited to negate a specific Titan. Deathstroke selected Match, a
Bizarro-type clone of Superboy, to counter Wonder Girl due to his
strength and his warped visage as being a psychological edge against
her.

The Titans battle furiously against the Titans East, during which they
are able to convince Batgirl and Duela Dent to switch sides.
Unfortunately the team is defeated by Slade's team a second time.
However, Raven, Cyborg, and Duela Dent manage to get aid from Nightwing,
Donna Troy, Beast Boy, and Flash (Bart Allen). Together the Titans
defeat Slade, who along with Inertia, manages to escape. During the
fight Jericho possess Match, and the team is reluctant to release Match
due to the danger he poses.

In the Countdown limited series, Cassie attends Bart Allen's funeral
and during a heated and controversial eulogy, she vows to get revenge
for Bart's death.

Cassie then becomes involved in the Amazon’s attack on Washington D.C.
Supergirl and Wonder Girl discover that their friends and family have
been placed in an internment camp due to their ties to the Amazons.
After a failed attempt to aid them, the two heroes agree to bring the
U.S. President to Queen Hippolyta in order to stop the war. They are
ambushed by a group of Amazons in the process, which causes the
President to become mortally wounded. The actions of the Amazons and
Wonder Girl's own involvement cause public outcry against all those who
have followed in Wonder Woman’s footsteps. Ultimately Cassie declares
that despite her training and past that she is not an Amazon, preferring
her ties to the Teen Titans over that of the Amazons. Accepting her
decision, Artemis wishes her well and leaves Cassie to her devices.
Wonder Girl celebrates by sharing another kiss with Robin in front of
her teammates.

In the months following the kiss, Cassie and Tim continue to go through
'will-they-won't-they' moments in which they both continue to question
the validity of their relationship. Then following a battle against an
army of future Titans, the pair decided at last to date. Unfortunately,
their relationship is short-lived, as after their first official date
Cassie ends the relationship, because she feels she is using Tim.
This has resulted in a growing animosity between the pair, which has
begun to bleed into their relationships with the other Titans.

Huntress

[Cassie in her Amazon armor.
Art by Aaron Lopresti.]Wonder Girl recently appeared in a six-issue
self-titled mini-series written by J. Torres and with art and covers by
Sanford Greene and Nathan Massengill. In this series, Wonder Girl
attempts to make up for the mistakes made by the Amazons on her own.
Cassie adopts a secret identity, taking up the name "Drusilla" (the same
name used by Wonder Girl in the '70s Wonder Woman television series).
However, as she attempts to apprehend a group of mystical beasts left
over from the Amazons' attack, she finds herself confronted by her
half-brother Hercules, who claims to want to help her become a true
champion of the gods and to rebuild Olympus. Cassie is reluctant to
trust him. Hercules persists and chases after Cassie, taking the form of
Superboy in order to get her attention.

Together, Hercules and Cassie try to discover who is attacking the
remaining Olympian gods. Soon into their search they are attacked by the
Female Furies. Hercules stops the fight by explaining that he has allied
with the Furies in hopes of rescuing the gods, or, failing that,
starting a new pantheon with them. The Furies have their own plans and
are only using Hercules to get to Wonder Girl. The Furies soon betray
Hercules, with Bloody Mary using her bite to gain power over Hercules,
forcing him to do what the Furies want. The Furies then kidnap Cassie's
mother to lure her into a trap. Aided by the Olympian, Wonder Girl goes
into battle, being forced to fight her own brother. The Teen Titans,
Empress, Arrowette and Wonder Woman show up to help. After Bloody Mary
is murdered by the New Gods killer, Hercules is freed from her spell and
immediately saves Wonder Girl from being kidnapped by the Furies.
Hercules goes free after he reveals he is now a demi-god and that Zeus
released him to help stop "the Great Disaster". Hercules then leaves to
perform certain "labors".

The series ends with Cassie reconciling with Wonder Woman, who tells
Cassie that she has become her own woman.

Cassie is later attacked by her nephew Lycus, the son of Ares. He
attempts to take her title as Ares' avatar, along with her power.
Although he is successful in stealing Cassie's powers derived from Ares,
Cassie discovers that she no longer needs to be blessed with powers from
the gods as she willed her own innate power to surface. Cassie now
possesses a high level of super-strength all her own.

Robin ultimately makes the decision to leave the Teen Titans for an
undetermined length of time in the aftermath of Batman R.I.P, leaving
Cassie with the task of assembling and leading a new team. After an
unsuccessful attempt at having Kid Devil recruit teen metahumans such as
Klarion, Shining Knight, and the teen members of the Justice Society of
America, Cassie eventually gains three new Titans in Static, Aquagirl,
and Kid Eternity. Kid Eternity's ability to summon the spirits of the
deceased briefly tempts Cassie, who considers having him summon Conner's
spirit. However, she eventually decides against it, telling Eternity
never to grant her such a request, even if she were to beg him.

Some months later, between the Final Crisis and the Blackest Night,
Cassie becomes aware of Conner's rebirth by Brainiac 5's hand. Despite
meeting him briefly at his return, Cassie decides to wait, until
Martha Kent herself, now sheltering Conner at her place, invites Cassie
for dinner, essentially granting Cassie and Conner a date. At first
skeptical and fearing to end as Lana Lang, basically forgotten and
replaced as Conner relocated to Smallville and gained a new circle of
friends, she's touched by Conner opening his heart to her about her
fears and dreams for their future life, and thus decides to tell Conner
about herself and Tim Drake. Conner quickly forgives her, arguing that
even if Cassie still loves him, she could not have known of his
impending resurrection in the immediate aftermath of the Infinite
Crisis, so she has nothing to blame. Happily, Cassie accepts to rekindle
their relationship.

Due to personal responsibilities, neither Conner nor Bart return to the
Teen Titans, though Wonder Girl still continues to lead. However,
following the demise of Kid Devil, Cassie begins questioning her
leadership and begins to make mistakes. During a massive battle with
Cinderblock in downtown San Francisco, Wonder Girl refuses to let her
team attack the villain directly, causing massive destruction to the
area. The heroes continue in their fruitless stalemate until Beast Boy
arrives and takes command of the team, leading to their victory. In the
aftermath of the battle, Beast Boy tells Cassie that she has to stop
dwelling on Devil's death or else more innocent people are going to get
hurt, something she does not take kindly.

A few days later, Beast Boy makes the decision to move back into Titans
Tower and replace Cassie as the head of the team, declaring that they
need a more experienced leader to get back on track. Though Cassie
initially says nothing about this, she ultimately becomes angry and
tells Beast Boy that no one asked for his help, and that she can lead
the team just fine. Beast Boy simply replies by saying that the Teen
Titans need help, and that everyone, including Cyborg, think so.

Blackest Night

During the events of Blackest Night, Cassie joins Kid Flash and Beast
Boy as part of a small group of past and present Titans who assemble at
Titans Tower. Lacking assistance from Static, Miss Martian, Blue Beetle,
Bombshell, and Aquagirl (each of whom are presumably defending other
cities), the team barely survives the onslaught.

After Dawn Granger uses her abilities to destroy the Black Lanterns,
Cassie and the others travel to Coast City in order to assist Barry
Allen and Hal Jordan in their battle with Nekron, the leader of the
Black Lantern Corps. To the horror of the gathered heroes, Nekron uses
his abilities to transform several once-dead heroes into Black Lanterns,
including Superboy, Kid Flash, Donna, and Wonder Woman. In the
ensuing battle, Cassie is killed when Donna Troy violently tears her
heart out. However, it is then revealed that the entire battle was a
mental ruse by Aphrodite, and Cassie is shown to still be alive.
When Black Lantern Conner attacks Cassie, all the while attempting to
break free from the Black Ring's control, Conner manages to break the
control in temporary, short lapses, which he uses to alert Cassie about
the solution to his Black Ring problem. The battle moves to the
fortress, where Cassie realizes what Conner was referring to when he
told them to move to the Fortress of Solitude Conner's corpse, placed
where he awaits his resurrection in Legion of Three Worlds. The Black
Ring, confused, leaves the living Conner and tries to attach itself to
his corpse, but Conner awakens his freeze breath ability, which freezes
the ring, and Cassie throws it into orbit. After reconciling, the pair
heads back to Coast City for the final battle with Nekron's army.

Return of Conner

After this, Cassie travels to New York to confront Cyborg about Beast
Boy's statements. He assures her that she is capable of leading the
Titans, and she returns to the team and admits to them that she is done
moping over Conner and Eddie. She then leads the team to the city of
Dakota in order to rescue Static, who had been kidnapped by a superhuman
gangster named Holocaust. After hearing about a battle between
Static and Holocaust in downtown Dakota, Cassie arrives on the scene
with Bombshell and Aquagirl. The three heroines are easily defeated and
captured by Holocaust, who then informs them that he plans on killing
them and weaponizing their powers in order to sell. Beast Boy and the
other Titans arrive at the compound to retrieve their comrades, but end
up being overpowered and defeated themselves. At the last second, Cyborg
bursts into the compound with Superboy and Kid Flash, preparing to
rescue the other Titans. Cassie is soon freed, and assists Superboy
in holding off Holocaust while the other Titans make their escape. In
the final battle, Cassie uses her lasso to bind the villain, allowing
Kid Flash to finish him off by sending him plummeting into the Earth's
inner core (though thanks to his superhuman durability, Static remarks
that the core would not kill him). On the plane ride back to San
Francisco, Conner remarks that Cassie seems to be ignoring him, and she
simply responds by telling him that he is correct.

Cassie later travels to Gotham City alongside several of her fellow
Titans after Ras Al Ghul begins targeting people close to Tim Drake. She
attempts to rescue Barbara Gordon from members of the League of
Assassins, but arrives to find that she has already defeated the men
that attempted to kill her.

During the events of Brightest Day, Cassie confronts a recently
resurrected Titan by the name of Osiris when he arrives at Titans Tower,
looking for help from his former teammates. Cassie tries to convince
Osiris to turn himself over to the police for the murdering the
Persuader during 52, but he angrily brushes her off and flees before
Cassie can contact the authorities. Blue Beetle asks if the Titans
should go after him, but Cassie simply replies by saying that Osiris
will return, and then rhetorically asks, "where else can he go?"

After a disastrous mission to another dimension in order to rescue
Raven, the Titans are torn asunder. Miss Martian is rendered comatose,
Static is left temporarily depowered, and Aquagirl and Bombshell are
missing and presumed dead at sea. Despite her pleas for Static to stay,
Wonder Girl is ultimately left with a roster consisting of only herself,
Superboy, Kid Flash, Raven, and Beast Boy. A short time after this,
the Titans rescue Bombshell and Aquagirl, who are both removed from the
team by Wonder Girl. When asked about this decision (as well as the
subsequent choice to invite the unstable Rose Wilson back into the
team), Wonder Girl states that Kid Devil's death has forced her to
realize that inexperienced teen heroes have no place on the team. At the
same time, she admits to Conner that she is having trouble reconciling
her knowledge as a leader with her fear of losing him again.

One-shot

In January 2011, Wonder Girl was given a one-shot, which was written by
JT Krul, drawn by Adriana Melo, and covered by Nicola Scott.,

The New 52

Following the 2011 relaunch of all  publications, a new Cassie
Sandsmark character was introduced in the Teen Titans series. This
version of Cassie, who dislikes being called "Wonder Girl", started out
as a teenaged thief who stole a pair of enchanted bracelets from a
temple before meeting Red Robin. She is later revealed to be the
daughter of Helen, an archaeologist, and Lennox Sandsmark, a British
super-soldier, who left the family, when Cassie was only four years
old. As Lennox is a demigod son of Zeus and Wonder Woman's
half-brother, Cassie, for the first time, is related to Wonder
Woman.


Powers and abilities

Cassandra originally received her powers from a number of mystical
artifacts employed by Artemis during her time as Wonder Woman. These
included the Gauntlet of Atlas and the Sandals of Hermes, which provided
her with the powers of strength and speed/flight, respectively. She
was eventually granted similar abilities by Zeus as "her fondest
wish". Discouraged by previously shown arrogance in his children
(Ares and Heracles), Zeus also blessed Cassandra's mother with the
ability to take away her powers for a short time via a simple touch.

Shortly after joining the Teen Titans, Ares approached her and gave
Cassandra her own magic lasso. Unlike Wonder Woman's Lasso of Truth,
Cassandra's is a weapon which channels Zeus' lightning when she becomes
angry. When the Greek gods left the mortal plane as a result of the
events of Infinite Crisis, taking Cassandra's powers along with them,
Ares offered her some of his power, saying that she would be "more
powerful than [she's] ever been". What this entails is not made entirely
clear, though she appeared to have retained all of her former
abilities. In a storyline taking place "One Year Later", Cassie
was shown catching a falling jet, which she was surprised at being able
to accomplish. However, while trying to stop the military from
detaining her mother, Ares causes her powers to fluctuate when he
believes she is wasting them on frivolous matters.

Ares in the end was not pleased with Cassandra as his champion. He
returned another to take her place. During a battle with Ares' son, King
Lycus, who also drew power from him, Cassie was able to cast away her
connection to the war god, and tap into her own powers as a demi-god
(like her brother Heracles). Her real powers increased to an even
greater level of strength than before. Currently, having tapped into her
own demi-goddess powers, Cassie is an Olympian powerhouse. Although, she
is not as powerful as Wonder Woman or Donna Troy, Cassie is still a
powerful young woman. Her lasso has apparently also changed, enabling
her to turn Lycus to dust with a simple order.

Cassie was trained by the Amazon Artemis and is extremely well trained
in the use of various weapons and in various martial arts. She is also a
very capable leader and strategist.

After the New 52 reboot, Cassie's powers have changed yet again. Her
powers are now derived from the "Silent Armor" that she wears, which was
forged in the heart of a sun and is apparently related to the demon
known as Trigon. The armor is invisible unless she summons it or is in a
combat situation, but she is always able to use its powers. The armor
usually appears as a glittering red bodysuit, golden gauntlets and,
occasionally, a hood. The armor grants her powers similar to those of
her pre-reboot counterpart such as superhuman strength (sufficient
enough for her to fight against Superboy for a short time), durability
(though she is still vulnerable to piercing weapons), superhuman
reflexes, and the power to fly at high speeds. The armor also grants her
a glowing red lasso that appears similar to barbed wire. The lasso is
infinite in length, is virtually indestructible, and can drain the life
force out of those wrapped in its confines. Cassie's armor also appears
to have a mind of its own and has taken over her mind and body on a few
occasions. It was later revealed that Cassie has divine heritage as
well, as her father was revealed to be Wonder Woman's elder brother
Lennox.


Other versions

Cassie played a central role in issue #54 of the Teen Titans Go!_
comic. She was the head of her high school's Wonder Woman fan club and
had repeatedly tried to get the superhero to visit her school. Her
obsession led her to steal two mystical artifacts that granted her
superpowers, after which she barged into an athletic tournament on
Paradise Island. This event was set up by Donna Troy to see which of the
world's young female heroes might be able to replace her as Wonder
Woman's partner. Cassie initially planned to defeat Donna one-on-one,
but wound up saving her from an invasion by the undersea villain Trident
instead. At the issue's end, Donna offered Cassie a chance to join the
Titans' worldwide training program, once her mother was through
punishing her for stealing the artifacts.

She made a brief appearance in issue #55, sucker-punching Cyborg in his
dreams.

Cassie also has a recurring role on the Tiny Titans comic by Art
Baltazar and Franco Aureliani. In the first issue, she is ridiculed by
her cousin Donna Troy, Dick Grayson, Cyborg (comics), and Kid Flash for
wearing a T-Shirt and jeans instead of a skirt with stars. However, when
she returns, wearing a skirt with stars and a helmet, she finds the boys
all wearing T-shirts and jeans. Her response to this is, "What? I did it
first, y'know!" 

In the comic tie-in to Injustice: Gods Among Us, Cassie is with the
Titans when the Joker's nuclear bomb goes off. Her attire is similar to
that of Wonder Woman's in the game. She is sent to spy on Conner after
he is devastated by Superman's actions to see what he's up to, and finds
him at the Fortress of Solitude trying to find the Phantom Zone
Projector. She and the other Titans try to help Conner stop Superman,
but Superman mortally wounds him. She and the Titans are sent to the
Phantom Zone by Superman to save Conner's life and to stop them from
interfering with Superman's plans.


In other media

Television

-   In the episode "Paradise Lost" from the first season of the Justice
    League animated series, Wonder Woman saves a young blonde girl from
    a tree. When Wonder Woman returns the girl to her mother, the mother
    calls the girl "Cassie". This is an obvious reference to Wonder Girl
    from the comics.
-   Wonder Girl appears in the Young Justice: Invasion episode "Happy
    New Year" voiced by Mae Whitman. She is introduced as a member
    of the Team's Beta Squad alongside Batgirl where they first appear
    to fight Lobo who was targeting U.N. Secretary General Tseng (who
    was actually an alien in disguise). In "Alienated" Wonder Girl and
    Wonder Woman were part of Delta Squad during the mission to stop the
    Kroloteans on Malina Island. They both took out multiple Mechs. When
    they learned the base was set to explode, she and the team retreated
    to the Bio-Ship. In "Beneath" she, Miss Martian, Bumblebee, and
    Batgirl liberated a group of abductees guarded by Mammoth,
    Icicle Jr., Devastation, Shimmer, and Psimon in Bialya. In "Before
    the Dawn", Wonder Girl and Alpha Squad followed a Manta-Flyer Star
    City to the Reach's headquarters to rescue their captured teammates
    and other abductees. The operation was cut short by a Reach
    enforcer, who Wonder Girl dubbed as "Black Beetle". As He
    overpowered and easily defeated the team one by one, Cassie
    contacted the other heroes for help. Black Beetle pinned her against
    the door, and mercilessly slammed her into it repeatedly until she
    was down. Blue Beetle, Beast Boy and Impulse arrived. While Blue
    Beetle held off the Black Beetle, Impluse and Beast Boy helped the
    team aboard the Bio-Ship and escaped. Wonder Girl and Tim Drake
    became a couple shortly after the Reach invasion concluded. Wally
    West's death was the catalyst in giving Wonder Girl the courage to
    kiss him.

Film

-   Cassie Sandsmark makes a cameo appearance in the  animated movie,
    Justice League: Throne of Atlantis. She is shown eating dinner
    behind the table of Superman and Wonder Woman. When Cyborg and
    Shazam come to fetch them via boom tube, Cassie stands up and
    exclaims, "I love you, Shazam!" She is apparently wearing a
    Shazam T-shirt.
-   The Young Justice version of Cassie Sandsmark, along with Artemis,
    Zatanna, and Miss Martian, makes a cameo appearance as home viewers
    in Scooby-Doo! WrestleMania Mystery.

Video games

-   Cassandra Sandsmark/Wonder Girl appears in  Universe Online,
    voiced by Mindy Raymond. In the hero's campaign, Circe gives Giganta
    Wonder Girl's powers and the heroes must save her and
    defeat Giganta.
-   Cassandra Sandsmark/Wonder Girl appears in Young Justice: Legacy,
    voiced by Mae Whitman. She has four available costumes, the standard
    young justice costume, a comic book version with jeans and a red
    top, Wonder Woman's costume and her new 52 variant.
-   Cassandra Sandsmark/Wonder Girl appears in Lego Batman 3: Beyond
    Gotham, voiced by Kari Wahlgren.


Webcast

-   Cassie Sandsmark/Wonder Girl was a regular character in Pendant
    Production's "Wonder Woman: Champion of Themyscira" serial webcast.

