WONDER BOY is the name of two fictional characters who have appeared as
superheroes in comics published by Quality Comics and . The
original was an alien who appeared in National Comics. The second was
a time-traveler from an alternate future who appeared in Team Titans.


Quality Comics

WONDER BOY was a fictional Quality Comics character and superhero who
first appeared in National Comics #1 (July 1940), in the story "The
Boy From the Meteor". The character was created by writer Toni Blum and
artist John Celardo.

With "the strength of a hundred full grown men", the nameless Wonder
Boy fell to Earth from the planet Viro, destroyed when it "collided"
with a star. Finding himself in Chicago, Illinois, he joined forces with
Sgt. Crane of the Army Air Corps and began using his superhuman
abilities to fight the Nazis, Axis spies and big-city crime. Cheering
him on from the sidelines was sweetheart Sally Benson, an earth girl.

Wonder Boy last appeared under the Quality Comics banner in National
Comics #26 (Nov. 1942), in an untitled story beginning "...The long
bloody hands of America's enemies..." The character reappeared two years
later in Elliot Publishing Co's Bomber Comics (along with several
other characters that originally appeared in National Comics). The
circumstances behind the move are unclear. In 1955, he was one of the
characters to be used by Ajax-Farrell Comics in Terrific Comics #16
and Wonder Boy #17 and 18. The character has not reappeared outside
reprints since. Another refugee from the Golden Age of Comic Books to
turn up in Wonder Boy #17 was Phantom Lady.




Team Titans

The second WONDER BOY debuted in Team Titans #19 (April 1994)
published by . He appeared in the past along with several other
Titans from an alternate future. They assisted the Team Titans on a
mission, and afterwards the group decided to remain in the past. Shortly
after the mission, Donna Troy addressed the Justice League assembly (led
by Wonder Woman) and announced the United States government made a deal
to allow the future Titans to remain in the past and act as paranormal
operatives led by a government-appointed supervisor. During his next
mission with the Titans, Wonder Boy teamed with Aqualad, Terra, Mirage,
and other Titans for an undersea mission.

During the 1994 Zero Hour storyline, the alternate future where the
Team Titans originated from is erased from continuity, and all the
characters from the alternate future are erased from existence.

Bobby Barnes

In Wonder Woman #188, writer Phil Jiminez introduces a non-super
powered character named Bobby Barnes (nephew of Princess Diana's
then-love interest Trevor Barnes). In the story, Bobby is a fan of
Wonder Woman and follows her around for a day. At the end of the story,
Wonder Woman presents him with a "Wonder Boy" t-shirt and invites him to
Themyscira for a celebration.

