WONDER DOG is a fictional canine superhero from the original ''Super
Friends '' television series. The character appeared in both the
animated series, as well as the comic book of the same name, but wasn't
incorporated into the  Universe until 2008.


Super Friends

In the Super Friends animated series, Wonder Dog is portrayed as the
pet/sidekick of Wendy and Marvin. He appears in all 16 episodes of the
original television series. This version of Wonder Dog also appeared in
the first six issues of the Super Friends comic book series.


Justice League Unlimited

In the Justice League Unlimited episode, "Ultimatum", a team of
superheroes created by Cadmus is featured and are a nod to the Super
Friends. While investigating, the Ultimen spot a huge, hulking beast
that throws itself against the bars of its cage. Dwayne McDuffie later
confirms that the beast is a reference to Wonder Dog.


The New Adventures of the Wonder Twins

Wendy, Marvin and Wonder Dog appear in the episode "Be Kind, Rewind" of
the Adult Swim series The New Adventures of the Wonder Twins. In that
episode, they are seen in a video store that the Wonder Twins are
hanging out in. Wendy and Wonder Dog's appearance is quite brief, but
Marvin has a fairly significant role in the episode. Apparently he put
on a little weight since the Super Friends series, and grew a beard.
Marvin tells the Wonder Twins that he has no hard feelings about them
getting him fired from the Super Friends, because now he and his band
are signed to a major label.


Teen Titans comics

Wonder Dog makes his first appearance in the mainstream  Universe in
Teen Titans. He appears to be just a stray dog that finds his way
to Titans Tower, and is named Wonder Dog by Miss Martian. Wonder Dog
soon transforms into a gigantic dog beast, kills Marvin and viciously
attacks Wendy, leaving her paralyzed. Wonder Dog was a hellhound used
by Ares' son, King Lycus, whose goal is to destroy Wonder Girl. With
every innocent death, Wonder Dog grows stronger; the Titans soon destroy
him.

